<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch009.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.6." class="level3">
<h3>I.6.</h3>
<p><em>Be thou Hadit, my secret centre, my heart &amp; my tongue!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-5" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>666 as Artist.</p>
<p>I am the Point of View (as of the artist) from which Nuit may be seen by all; for I am Her inmost thought, her sense, and her Voice.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-5" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>In order to achieve this, The Beast, stripped of his human personality, becomes, feels &amp; speaks in the character of the impersonal individual essence, which is common to all individuals alike.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-5" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The recipient of this knowledge is to identify himself with Hadit, and thus fully express the thoughts of her heart in her very language.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-5" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit formulates me as Hadit, especially in the three centres of consciousness of her Being. IN this way, for this purpose, I became the complement of Her.</p>
<p>These centres are those of Love, Life and language. Duality is the condition of all three. It will appear later how it is that None and Two are identical; they are distinct in our minds only because those minds are conscious, and therefore think of “two” as their own state. But the unconscious mind thinks Nothing, and is Nothing. Yet it is the same mind.</p>
<p>Nuith selects three centres of Her Body to become “Two” with Hadit; for she asks me to declare Her in these three. Infinite freedom, all-embracing, for physical Love; boundless continuity for Life; and the silent rhythm of the Stars for Language. These three conceptions are Her gift to us.</p>
<p>(Aleister Crowley is being „chosen‟, and the choice is specifically declared: He is to be Hadit, that is, simultaneously Kether (the centre), Chokhmah (the tongue) and Binah (the ancient Egyptians believed that the heart was the seat of intelligence).</p>
<p>In short, in order to do the job for which he was chosen — Nuit’s Helpmeet — he must reach the highest Initiations possible to man. Which, of course, he did.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
