<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch005.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.2." class="level3">
<h3>I.2.</h3>
<p><em>The unveiling of the company of heaven.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-1" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Pantheism of AL.</p>
<p>The Book of the Law shows forth all things as God.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-1" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>This book reveals the divine nature of each individual consciousness.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-1" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>This book is a new revelation, or unveiling of the holy ones.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-1" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This explains the general theme of this revelation: gives the Dramatis Personae, so to speak.</p>
<p>It is cosmographically, the conception of the two Ultimate Ideas; Space, and That which occupies Space.</p>
<p>It will however appear later that these two ideas may be resolved into one, that of Matter; with Space, its ‘Condition’ or ‘form’, included therein. This leaves the idea of ‘Motion’ for Hadit, whose interplay with Nuit makes the Universe.</p>
<p>Time should perhaps be considered as a particular kind or dimension of Space. « In “Berashith” all qualities soever are considered as so many dimensions. I see no reason, 19 years later, for receding from this view. »</p>
<p>Further, this verse is to be taken with the next. The ‘company of heaven’ is Mankind, and its ‘unveiling’ is the assertion of the independent godhead of every man and every woman!</p>
<p>Further, as Khabs (see verse 8) is “Star”, there is a further meaning; this Book is to reveal the Secret Self of a man, i.e. to initiate him.</p>
<p>(Or of a woman, and initiate her. As to the meaning of the verses, there are at least four Great Meanings, one for each of the Four Ordeals mentioned the Chapter Three, vv. 64-67. Besides these, there are subsidiary meanings which depend on the Grade of the Commentator, or the Grade of the Reader. This is one of the reasons why this matter of commentaries is so difficult, and why any commentary must not be taken too seriously. The Four Great Meanings, of course, are beyond any danger of being confused, since they are experienced in Trance, and independent of Reason. They cannot be communicated through the intellect. Even the most accurate attempt to do so misleads.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
