<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch004.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.1." class="level3">
<h3>I.1.</h3>
<p><em>Had! The manifestation of Nuit.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p><em>Nuit defined.</em></p>
<p>Nuit is all that may be, and is shewn by means of any one that is.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>The possibilities of existence can only be manifested through the experience of individuals.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Compare II.1, the complement of this verse. In Nu is Had concealed; by Had is Nu manifested. Nu being 56 and Had 9, their conjunction results in 65, Adonai, the Holy Guardian Angel. Also Hoor, who combines the force of the Sun with that of Mars. Adonai is primarily Solar, but 65 is a number sacred to Mars.</p>
<p>See the “Sepher Sephiroth”, and “The Wake World” in “Konx Om Pax” for further details on 65.</p>
<p>Note moreover, the sixty-five pages of the MS. of Liber Legis.</p>
<p>Or, counting NV 56, Had 10, we get 66, which is (1-11). Had is further the centre of the Key-Word ABRAHADABRA.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The theogony of our Law is entirely scientific, Nuit is Matter, Hadit is Motion, in their full physical sense. «The Proton and the Electron, in a metaphysical sense, suggest close analogies.» They are the Tao and Teh of Chinese Philosophy; or, to put it very simply, the Noun and Verb in grammar. Our central Truth – beyond other philosophies – is that these two infinities cannot exist apart. This extensive subject must be studied in our other writings, notably “Berashith”, my own Magical Diaries, especially those of 1919, 1920 and 1921, and “Liber AlephThe Book of Wisdom or Folly”. See also “The Soldier and the Hunchback”. Further information concerning Nuit and Hadit is given in the course of this Book; but I must here mention that the Brother mentioned in connection with the “Wizard Amalantrah” etc. (Samuel bar Aiwaz) identifies them with ANU and ADAD the supreme Mother and Father deities of the Sumerians. Taken in connexion with the AIWAZ identification, this is very striking indeed.</p>
<p>(This last sentence was added because A.C. was convinced that Aiwass was the Being worshipped under this name by the ancient Sumerians.)</p>
<p>It is also to be considered that Nu is connected with North, while Had is Sad, Set, Satan, Sat (equals “Being” in Sanskrit), South. He is then the Sun, one point concentring Space, as also is any other star. The word ABRAHADABRA is from Abrasax, Father Sun, which adds to 365. For the North-South antithesis see Fabre d’Olivet’s “Hermeneutic Interpretation of the Origin of the Social State in Man”. Note “Sax” also as a Rock, or Stone, whence the symbol of the Cubical Stone, the Mountain Abiegnus, and so forth. Nu is also reflected in Naus, Ship, etc., and that whole symbolism of Hollow Space which is familiar to all. There is also a question of identifying Nu with On, Noah, Oannes, Jonah, John, Dianus, Diana, and so on. But these identifications are all partial only, different facets of the Diamond Truth. We may neglect all these questions, and remain in the simplicity of this Her own Book.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
