<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch019.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.16." class="level3">
<h3>I.16.</h3>
<p><em>For he is ever a sun, and she a moon. But to him is the winged secret flame, and to her the stooping starlight.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-15" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Our Function shewn in a Figure.</p>
<p>I am a Sun, giving out Light and Life; but she is their guide in darkness, making them pure, single of heart, awake to the Highest.</p>
<p>Our Powers.</p>
<p>I have the power to kindle in my mind the Essence of the Abstract Soul; she that of taking all that may be dear and near and clear to men and women, that so they all may find their joy in all.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-15" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>The Beast is thus the source of Light &amp; Life &amp; bestows these openly upon such as understand clearly the nature of the Universe. Her function is to reflect his light to such as walk in ignorance yet dream &amp; aspire. He is the type of the individual &amp; she of the forms by which he is able to express himself.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-15" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>In II. 16 we find that Had is to be taken as 11 (see II. 16, comment). Then Hadit = 421, Nuit = 466.</p>
<p>421 - 3 (the moon) = 418.</p>
<p>466 + 200 (the sun) = 666.</p>
<p>These are the two great numbers of the Qabalistic system that enabled me to interpret the signs leading to this revelation.</p>
<p>The winged secret flame is Hadit; the stooping starlight is Nuit; these are their true natures, and their functions in the supreme ritual referred to above.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-15" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The sun and moon, in their occult sense, are secondary representatives of this original duality which is a phase of the Qabalistic Zero. Other correspondences are Yun {SIC, s.b. “Yang” ?WEH} and Yin, Yod and He, etc. But most such dualities have been conceived in very gross and unphilosophical forms. Of course, it is impossible to grasp this subject properly by reason; only the understanding developed by meditation and spiritual experience avails. Initiation is pantomorphously progressive.</p>
<p>Note that the Secret Divine Letter ShT which is the key of this book is by shape the Sun united with the Moon C = Sh, O = t CO = Sht.</p>
<p>{WEH NOTE: Elsewhere Crowley calls this sign “the secret sigil of the Beast” and it is depicted by a crescent attached to the left side of a circle. Sometimes the circle is dotted. Sometimes the Greek lower case letters sigma-theta are written connectively for this (vide. Liber MCCLXIV, value 209, first edition, OTONL-6 and note 28).}</p>
<p>(A.C. “was inclined to believe” that “the Beast” and “the Scarlet Woman” are titles of office rather than persons. Whether this is true or not, speculation as to the secret meaning of this verse may lead to disaster. It is obvious that it is a temptation for an Aspirant‟s vanity to fancy himself as “the next Beast”, or herself as “the Scarlet Woman”. There has been, in the last 65 years, a painful abundance of self-deluded disciples who fancied themselves as such.</p>
<p>It must be stated here that either office is neither easy nor pleasing to anyone‟s Ego, and that those who seriously aspire to become “Beast” or Scarlet Woman” are more to be laughed at than envied. Robert Heinlein has an amusing story about how the Devil finally managed to dethrone God, and then, upon perceiving the responsibilities of Ruler of the Universe, cried in panic, “But I don‟t want your job!” “So sorry, old boy, now you‟re stuck with it,” God replied gleefully, and presumably went vacationing on the Riviera.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
