<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch012.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.9." class="level3">
<h3>I.9.</h3>
<p><em>Worship then the Khabs, and behold my light shed over you!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-8" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nature of Mankind.</p>
<p>The essence of a Man and Woman – each being a Star or sovereign God poised in Space by its own act – is clothed in thoughts and deeds as is its Nature, hidden by them.</p>
<p>This essence is all-worthy; adore it, and the light of all that may be shall be shed upon you.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-8" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>Mankind should therefore seek the inmost truth behind the phenomenal manifestation thereof. Finding this, he will become aware of the totality of possibilities, instead of imagining as hitherto, that his actual characteristics suffice to express his nature completely.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-8" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>That Khabs is declared to be the light of Nu. It being worshipped in the centre, the light also fills the circumference, so that all is light.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-8" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>We are to pay attention to this Inmost Light; then comes the answering Light of Infinite Space. Note that the Light of Space is what men call Darkness; its nature is utterly incomprehensible to our uninitiated minds. It is the ‘veils’ mentioned previously in this comment that obstruct the relation between Nuit and Hadit.</p>
<p>We are not to worship the Khu, to fall in love with our Magical Image. To do this – we have all done it – is to forget our Truth. If we adore Form, it becomes opaque to Being, and may soon prove false to itself. The Khu in each of us includes the Cosmos as he knows it. To me, even another Khabs is only part of my Khu. Our own Khabs is our one sole Truth.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
