<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch011.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.8." class="level3">
<h3>I.8.</h3>
<p><em>The Khabs is in the Khu, not the Khu in the Khabs.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-7" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nature of Mankind.</p>
<p>The essence of a Man and Woman – each being a Star or sovereign God poised in Space by its own act – is clothed in thoughts and deeds as is its Nature, hidden by them.</p>
<p>This essence is all-worthy; adore it, and the light of all that may be shall be shed upon you.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-7" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>The manifested qualities of any individual are expressions of his essence but his nature cannot be discovered by investigating them.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-7" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Khabs is the secret Light or L.V.X.; the Khu is the magical entity of a man.</p>
<p>I find later (Sun in Virgo, An VII.) that Khabs means star. In which case “cf. v.” 3.</p>
<p>The doctrine here taught is that the Light is innermost, essential man. Intra (not Extra)</p>
<p>Nobis Regnum Dei.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-7" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>We are not to regard ourselves as base beings, without whose sphere is Light or “God”. Our minds and bodies are veils of the Light within. The uninitiate is a “Dark Star”, and the Great Work for him is to make his veils transparent by ‘purifying’ them. This ‘purification’ is really ‘simplification’; it is not that the veil is dirty, but that the complexity of its folds makes it opaque. The Great Work therefore consists principally in the solution of complexes. Everything in itself is perfect, but when things are muddled, they become ‘evil’. (This will be understood better in the Light of “The Hermit of Esopus Island”, q.v.) The Doctrine is evidently of supreme importance, from its position as the first ‘revelation’ of Aiwass.</p>
<p>This ‘star’ or ‘Inmost Light’ is the original, individual, eternal essence. The Khu is the magical garment which it weaves for itself, a ‘form’ for its Being Beyond Form, by use of which it can gain experience through self-consciousness, as explained in the note to verses 2 and 3. This Khu is the first veil, far subtler than mind or body, and truer; for its symbolic shape depends on the nature of its Star.</p>
<p>Why are we told that the Khabs is in the Khu, not the Khu in the Khabs? Did we then suppose the converse? I think that we are warned against the idea of a Pleroma, a flame of which we are Sparks, and to which we return when we ‘attain’. That would indeed be to make the whole curse of separate existence ridiculous, a senseless and inexcusable folly. It would throw us back on the dilemma of Manichaeism. The idea of incarnations “perfecting” a thing originally perfect by definition is imbecile. The only sane solution is as given previously, to suppose that the Perfect enjoys experience of (apparent) Imperfection. (There are deeper resolutions of this problem appropriate to the highest grades of initiation; but the above should suffice the average intelligence.)</p>
<p>(When A.C. says, above, “Did we then suppose the converse?” he is speaking with his tongue in his cheek. He knows perfectly well that all religions, without one single solitasry exception, suppose the converse. He, himself, had once supposed the converse.</p>
<p>This central mystery reveald by Aiwass was the darkest secret of most Initiatic Schools. All religions start as Methods of Theurgy; as Method degenerates into Routine, Blind Faith becomes more virtuous than Experience, and Dogma is born. Then God is put on a pedestal, where He, or She, or It, is less uncomfortably present when you indulge your basest appetites such as Preaching and Saving Souls.</p>
<p>The formidable nature of the Book of the Law becomes apparent when we see that this “Dark Mystery” is the first and simplest of its revelations. No wonder organized religions everywhere fought it! No wonder “Initiatic Orders” which had only this “Awful Truth” — “Osiris is a Black God” — to mask their financial and political maneuvers clamored that Aleister Crowley was a very wicked man.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
