<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch014.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.11." class="level3">
<h3>I.11.</h3>
<p><em>These are fools that men adore; both their Gods &amp; their men are fools.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-10" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>The Secret of Government.</p>
<p>Men adore Naught, although they deem Naught God and Man; thus the Pure Fool rules them, and saves them from base knowledge which is false.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-10" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>The ordinary man constructs &amp; worships an ideal which he calls God or hero according in the image of the phantasm of his vanities.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-10" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>“The many and the known,” both among Gods and men, are revered; this is folly.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-10" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It is a fact of meditation that everything which becomes manifest is instantly recognized as unreal. All perfect unveiling solves, wholly or in part, the equation “Something equals 0/0.” (See comment on verse 28.) Adeptship is little more than ability to perceive this 0/0 phase of “Something” in respect of larger and larger “Somethings”.</p>
<p>A verse with so sacred a number as 11 is likely to mean very deep things. Probably much concerning the function of The Fool is concealed in it.</p>
<p>It has been shewn in a previous note that the principal Gods, and men, that men have adored, are in one way or another represented in the Tarot card “The Fool”. The statement in the text is, superficially, either a platitude or a petulance; neither sounds like the tone of Nuit. A third alternative? Can we have “phrased” it carelessly, or punctuated it incorrectly? Or is there a Qabalistic puzzle or a mystic submeaning concealed? The subject changes instantly, as it seems. I prefer to suggest that these “fools” are “Silent selves”, impotent babes unborn; then verse 12 continues “Come forth!”, that is, bring your Holy Guardian Angel from the womb of your subconsciousness. Then, “take your fill of love”; that is, do your True Will, whose mode of fulfilment is love, as explained later in this chapter.</p>
<p>(This verse establishes uncompromisingly that all Gods — G capital, that is to say, „true Gods‟ — and all men deified by legend or deceit — that is to say, „false gods‟ — are fools. How come? It is a key. Distinction is clearly made between the two types: one are Gods; the other is men. The key is that both types are adored, which, as verses 7-9 established, is wrong. Wrong for Aspirants, of course.</p>
<p>The „Gods‟ are fools — that is, they reached the Plane of Consciousness of the Fool of the Tarot. The „men‟ are also fools — the common, abundant variety.</p>
<p>Technically, an Initiate can be called a God only after crossing the Abyss. However, Masters of the Temple do not becomae known, therefore can not be adored. It is Those of the Grade following, the Magi, who become known. It is the Curse of Their Grade the They must speak Truth — so that the Falsehood contained in the Truth may enslave the souls of men. See Liber I vel Magi. Their Sphere of Consciousness, Chokhmah, receives the Influx from the Crown through the Path of Aleph, The Fool.</p>
<p>The „men‟, in order to become adored, must be sufficiently powerful, magically speaking , to impress the consciousness of a sufficient num,ber of weaker fools. No hard task for a Magician, but one that only a “Black Brother” would undertake. Now, although both cases result in enslavement, there is a difference in motivation and in effect. The Magus must speak, though He like it not: the „Black Brother‟ ought to shut up (in order to become a Magister Templi), but he will not. The Magus fulfills the Law; the „Black Brother‟ rebels against it. The enslavement produced the Magus is in harmony with the Racial True Will; it is the kind of „bondage‟ that leads to freedom‟ (See Liber AlephLiber Aleph, Chapters 36-39). The enslavement produced by the „Black Brother‟ should ever become sufficiently powerful to „supersede‟ the Magus of the Aeon in which he lives (which fortunately is absurd, although they are always trying), mankind ight very well go the way of the dinosaur and other extinct species. Which is not about to happen, by any means. We are at War, certainly, and under atomic threat, certainly. Better this than the Stagnation that certain well-intentioned fools would call „Peace‟!</p>
<p>From the point of view of the Aspirant, what is the fundamental difference between the formula of the fools and that of the Gods? The Gods crossed the Abyss; they are Perfect. See verse 45: “The Perfect the Perfect are one Perfect and not two; nay, are none!” That is, they are the “Fool of God” — Zero.</p>
<p>With a true God you achieve Samadhi, Union; with a false god, „one of the “fools”, a „Black Brother‟, you are enticed or ordered or coerced to pactuate. There is no Union involved, no Spiritual Experience. The pact functions only on the emotional and intellectual levels, and you give with out receiving, since the „Black Brother‟ is, deep down, afraid of you. He — or she — will cheat you, and play with you, and brag to you bout it — and yet, all the time, you will sense his or her fear. With a God, fear is all on your side. With a „Black Brother‟, their fear is mutual — and usually his — or hers — is much bigger than yours, since he — or she — knows much better than you do what it is that he or she fears. Therefore, it is written: “all fools despise!” A true God needs no adoration, and will not be affected by your scorn. A „Black Brother‟ will shrivel without one, and foam when faced with the other. (Exceptions to this rule pertain neither to the Grade for which this commentary is being written, nor to this verse. See Chapter Two, verse 79. See, also, Liber CLXXV.)</p>
<p>Aspirants must be on guard, constantly, because the „Black Brethren‟ imitate the Magi, and may be mistaken for them by sloppy thinkers. Because of the confusion of their vehicles, and their spiritual pride, on reaching Samadhi with a spiritual current the „Black brethren‟ think that they are the re-incarnation of the Magus who originated that particular current. They set out to do another man‟s job, instead of discovering their own Will, and doing it. As a result, all their words “are skew-wise”. But the unwary may spend centuries following a false master — as the Roman Church, for instance, has proved.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
