<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch015.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.12." class="level3">
<h3>I.12.</h3>
<p><em>Come forth, o children, under the stars, &amp; take your fill of love!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-11" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>The Nature of an Act: its virtue.</p>
<p>All acts are in truth acts of Love. Fulfil all Loves that may be, to the full. Be this in Light, before all Stars, that all may see and rejoice.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-11" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>I exhort men to cease to hide themselves in the refuges which they have constructed in themselves from fear of facing reality. I bid them take cognisance of the existence of their fellow individuals to realise the infinite possibilities of experience open to them &amp; to satisfy their sense that they are incomplete by uniting themselves with all other beings.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-11" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The Key of the worship of Nu. The uniting of consciousness with infinite space by the exercise of love, pastoral or pagan love. But “vide infra.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-11" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The whole doctrine of ‘love’ is discussed in the Book “Liber AlephAleph (Wisdom or Folly)” and should be studied therein. But note further how this Verse agrees with the comment above, how every Star is to come forth from its veils, that it may revel with the whole World of Stars. This is again also a call to unite or ‘love’, thus formulating the Equation 1 (-1) = 0 « The Hon. Bertrand Russell might prefer to write this: 1 (-1) = 0. For Initiates of the IXth degree of O.T.O. it could be expressed: Phi K - T = 0, where Phi - K = 0, and Phi and K are both positive integers. » , which is the general magical formula in our Cosmos.</p>
<p>“Come forth” – from what are you hiding? “under the stars”, that is, openly. Also, let love be ‘under’ or ‘unto’ the Body of Nuith. But above all, be open! What is this shame? Is Love Hideous, that men should cover him with lies? Is Love so sacred that others must not intrude? Nay, ‘under the stars’, at night, what eye but theirs may see? Or, if one see, should not your worship wake the cloisters of his soul to echo sanctity for that so lovely a deed and gracious you have done?</p>
<p>(The above paragraph will sound a little naïve to most readers born after the Forties. You must not forget that the Commentaries were written in the Twenties. At that time, if a pair of lovers were merely to embrace and kiss a ta street corner, this would be a cause for scandal.</p>
<p>Nor should you think that Crowley is necessarily advising you to copulate at midnight in the middle of Main Street. If you do, in most communities you are likely to interrupt or disturb traffic, thereby interfering with the will of others. Certain Operations are possible, at least at present, only „under laboratory conditions‟. But to make love under a starry sky on a grassy lawn in a public park is not only possible but, at least in this writer’s experience, delicious.</p>
<p>To watch others „doing it‟, of course, is not as much fun, but it can be enormously instructive if the others have better technique than you do. If you can swallow your pride and fear and watch attentively, you may become a finer man — or woman — by it.</p>
<p>There is, of course, a technical sense in this verse, which varies according to the Grade of the reader. For instance, the numeration of „love‟ is 111, which is Aleph, The Fool, and which is also a number of Binah, since its sum is 3. And „fill‟ is 76, which sums 13, which is Unity, among other things (ACHD), but also Death int he Tarot. And so forth. Such sub-meanings may mislead, and their perusal or pursuit is better left „to the right Ingenium of the Practicus‟ — if to investigate them be his Will.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
