<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch010.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.7." class="level3">
<h3>I.7.</h3>
<p><em>Behold! it is revealed by Aiwass the minister of Hoor-paar-kraat.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-6" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Mine H.G.A. Aiwass: HisNature and Office, AL his Word.</p>
<p>Mine Angel sayeth Her song into mine ear. He is Aiwass, who is the Word of the Law as also its mode of action. He serveth Silence through his speech, which stilleth evil sounds, not known nor fused into one tune.</p>
</section>
<section id="tunisia-diaries-6" class="level4">
<h4>Tunisia Diaries</h4>
<p>The essential truth necessary at the present period of history is revealed by Aiwass, the H.G.A. of The Beast, whose name expresses equally the ideas of the Law itself &amp; of the Formula of the Aeon. He is called the minister of the God of Silence, as if to assert that his message is not a disturbance of spiritual equilibrium but the means of correcting an existing error.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-6" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Aiwass — see Introduction. He is 78, Mezla the “influence” from the Highest Crown, and the number of cards in the Tarot, Rota, the all- embracing Wheel.</p>
<p>Hoor-paar-Kraat. See II. 8.</p>
<p>Aiwass is called the minister of Hoor-paar-Kraat, the God of Silence; for his word is the Speech in the Silence.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-6" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Aiwass is the name given by Ouarda the Seer as that of the Intelligence Communicating. See note to Title.</p>
<p>Hoor-paar-Kraat or Harpocrates, the “Babe in the Egg of Blue”, is not merely the God of Silence in a conventional sense. He represents the Higher Self, the Holy Guardian Angel. The connexion is with the symbolism of the Dwarf in Mythology. He contains everything in Himself, but is unmanifested. See II:8.</p>
<p>He is the First Letter of the Alphabet, Aleph, whose number is One, and his card in the Tarot is The Fool, numbered Zero. Aleph is attributed to the “Element” (in the old classification of things) of Air.</p>
<p>Now as “One” or Aleph he represents the Male Principle, the First Cause, and the free breath of Life, the sound of the vowel A being made with the open throat and mouth.</p>
<p>As Zero he represents the female Principle, the fertile Mother. (An old name for the card is Mat, from the Italian ‘Matto’, fool, but earlier also from Maut, the Egyptian Vulture-Mother-Goddess). Fertile, for the ‘Egg of Blue’ is the Uterus, and in the Macrocosm the Body of Nuith, and it contains the Unborn Babe, helpless yet protected and nourished against the crocodiles and tigers shown on the card, just as the womb is sealed during gestation. He sits on a lotus, the yoni, which floats on the ‘Nile’, the amniotic fluid.</p>
<p>In his absolute innocence and ignorance he is “The Fool”; he is the ‘Saviour’, being the Son who shall trample on the crocodiles and tigers, and avenge his father Osiris. Thus we see him as the “Great Fool” of Celtic legend, the “Pure Fool” of Act I of “Parsifal”, and, generally speaking, the insane person whose words have always been taken for oracles.</p>
<p>But to be ‘Saviour’ he must be born and grow to manhood; thus Parsifal acquires the Sacred Lance, emblem of virility. He usually wears the ‘Coat of many colours’ like Joseph the ‘dreamer’; so he is also now the Green Man of spring festivals. But his ‘folly’ is now not innocence but inspiration of wine; he drinks from the Graal, offered to him by the Priestess.</p>
<p>So we see him fully armed as Bacchus Diphues, male and female in one, bearing the Thyrsus-rod, and a cluster of grapes or a wineskin, while a tiger leaps up by his side. This form is suggested in the Taro card, where ‘The fool’ is shown with a long wand and carrying a sack; his coat is motley. Tigers and Crocodiles follow him, thus linking this image with that of Harpocrates.</p>
<p>Almost identical symbols are those of the secret God of the Templars, the bi-sexual Baphomet, and of Zeus Arrhenothelus, equally bi-sexual, the Father-Mother of All in One Person. (He is shown in this full form in the Tarot Trump XV, “the Devil”.) Now Zeus being lord of Air, we are reminded that Aleph is the letter of Air.</p>
<p>As Air we find the “Wandering Fool” pure wanton Breath, yet creative. Wind was supposed of old to impregnate the Vulture, which therefore was chosen to symbolize the Mother-Goddess.</p>
<p>He is the Wandering Knight or Prince of Fairy Tales who marries the King’s Daughter. This legend is derived from certain customs among exogamic tribes, for which see “The Golden Bough”.</p>
<p>Thus one Europa, Semele and others claimed that Zeus – Air«Zeus obtained Air for his kingdom in the partition with Hades, who took Fire, and Poseidon, who took Water. Shu is the Egyptian God of the Firmament. There is a great difficulty here, etymologically. Zeus is connected with IAO, Abrasax, and the Dental Sibilant Gods of the Great Mysteries, with the South and Hadit, Ada, Set, Saturn, Adonai, Attis, Adonis; he is even the “Jesus”, slain with the Lance, whose blood is collected in a Cup. Yet he is also to be identified with the opposite party of the North and Nuit, with the “John” slain with the Sword, whose flesh is placed upon a Disk, in the Lesser Mysteries, baptizing with Water as “Jesus” with Fire, with On, Oannes, Noah, and the like.</p>
<p>It seems as if this great division, which has wrought such appalling havoc upon the Earth, were originally no more than a distinction adopted for convenience. It is indeed the task of this Book to reduce Theology to the interplay of the Dyad Nuith and Hadith, these being themselves conceived as complementary, as Two equivalent to Naught, “divided for lvoe’s sake, for the chance of union.”» – had enjoyed them in the form of a beast, bird, or what not; while later Mary attributed her condition to the agency of a Spirit – Spiritus, breath, or air – in the shape of a dove.</p>
<p>(Simple-minded readers must not think for one moment that A.C. is here “admitting the historical existence of the Virgin Mary”; on the contrary, he is obviously putting her on the same footing with Europa, Semele and others. The Virgin Birth, like the Dying God, is a much older myth than Christianity; and the Virgin was usually seeded by a God under the form of a Beast. Far form being original, Christian Theology is a pot-pourri of stolen goods.)</p>
<p>But the “Small Person” of Hindu mysticism, the Dwarf insane yet crafty of many legends in many lands, is also this same “Holy Ghost”, or Silent Self of a man, or his Holy Guardian Angel.</p>
<p>He is almost the “Unconscious” of Freud, unknown, unaccountable, the silent Spirit, blowing “whither it listeth, but thou canst not tell whence it cometh or whither it goeth”. It commands with absolute authority when it appears at all, despite conscious reason and judgment.</p>
<p>Aiwass is then, as this verse 7 states, the “minister” of this Hoor-paar-Kraat, that is of the Saviour of the World in the larger sense, and of mine own “Silent Self” in the lesser. A “minister” is one who performs a service, in this case evidently that of revealing; He was the intelligible medium between the Babe God – the New Aeon about to be born – and myself. This Book of the Law is the Voice of his Mother, His Father, and Himself. But on His appearing, He assumes the active form twin to Harpocrates, that of Ra-Hoor-Khuit. The Concealed Child becomes the Conquering Child, the armed Horus avenging his father Osiris. So also our own Silent Self, helpless and witless, hidden within us, will spring forth, if we have craft to loose him to the Light, spring lustily forward with his cry of Battle, the Word of our True Wills.</p>
<p>This is the Task of the Adept, to have the Knowledge and Conversation of His Holy Guardian Angel, to become aware of his nature (the Adept’s) and his purpose (the Adept’s), fulfilling them.</p>
<p>(The Knowledge and Conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel produces this result. It is not “the Angel’s nature‟ or “the Angel’s purpose” that are to be done by the Adept! For instance, Aiwass was the Holy Guardian Angel of A.C.; but Aiwass goes on doing His job, that of being minister of Hoor-paar-kraat, while A.C. — now 666 — does His. Suum cuique.)</p>
<p>Why is Aiwass thus spelt, when Aiwaz is the natural transliteration of OIVZ ? {WEH NOTE: This word is not certain.} Perhaps because he was not content with identifying Himself with Thelema, Agape, etc. by the number 93, but wished to express his nature by six letters (Six being the number of the Sun, the God-Man, etc.) whose value in Greek should be A=1, I=10, F=6, A=1, S=200, S=200: total 418, the number of Abrahadabra, the Magical Formula of the new Aeon! Note that I and V are the letters of the Father and the Son, also of the Virgin and the Bull, (See “Liber 418”) protected on either side by the letter of AIR, and followed by the letter of Fire twice over.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
