<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch028.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.25." class="level3">
<h3>I.25.</h3>
<p><em>Divide, add, multiply, and understand.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-24" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(25-26.) Nuit proves to Aleister Crowley that he is in truth 666 by means of a riddle and a Sign.</p>
<p>I, asking Nuit: Who am I? and: What shall be the sign? (that I am who I am) was told by means of a Riddle, so that I might be sure that the answer came from Her and not from mind own mind, that I was 666. Also the sign was shewn me in a Riddle, as well as in the English of the Text. These matters will I set forth elsewhere.<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a></p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-24" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Dividing 6/50 = 0.12.</p>
<p>0 the circumference, Nuit.</p>
<p>. the centre, Hadit.</p>
<p>1 the Unity proceeding, Ra-Hoor-Khuit.</p>
<p>2 = the Coptic H, whose shape closely resembles the Arabic figure 2, the Breath of Life, inspired and expired. Human consciousness. Thoth.</p>
<p>Adding 50 + 6 = 56, Nu, and concentrating 5 + 6 = 11, Abrahadabra, etc.</p>
<p>Multiplying 50 x 6 = 300, HB:Sh and Ruach Elohim, the Holy Spirit.</p>
<p>I am inclined to believe that there is a further mystery concealed in this verse; possibly those of 418 and 666 again.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-24" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>See Qabalistic Appendix. {WEH NOTE: Appendix not yet recovered. K. Grant, op. cit., adds several paragraphs here which appear to come from Crowley. This is not provided in this text for lack of certainty of the providence.}</p>
<p>(See Liber NV)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. See for example The Magical Record of the Beast 666 for 18th Jan / 1st Feb 1920 (p92-93 of Symonds &amp; Grant edition) – V.C.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
