<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch024.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.21." class="level3">
<h3>I.21.</h3>
<p><em>With the God &amp; the Adorer I am nothing: they do not see me. They are as upon the earth; I am Heaven, and there is no other God than me, and my lord Hadit.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-20" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit further defined Her relation to Gods, Men, Heaven, Earth, and to Her Lord Hadit.</p>
<p>Nuit is not beheld of any God or Man; for they are fixed Event, they are Facts, while She is the ever-to-be. She therefore is to be held worthy, she and that Self which may enjoy her Love; seek not those joys which, being actual, cease to exhale rapture.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-20" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Refers to the actual picture on the stele. Nuit is a conception immeasurably beyond all men have ever thought of the Divine. Thus she is not the mere star-goddess, but a far higher thing, dimly veiled by the unutterable glory. This knowledge is only to be attained by adepts; the outer cannot reach to it.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-20" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The importance of this verse lies in the assertion of the metaphysical entity of Our Lady, Her incomprehensibility to normal sense.</p>
<p>The Method of invoking Nuit is given in Liber XI (see Equinox I, VII). Note the initials of God and Adorer GA, the Earth.</p>
<p>Note that Heaven is not a place where Gods Live; Nuit is Heaven, itself. And “Heaven” is of course “a place wherein one may fulfil oneself”, conformably to the definition of Nuit as Space previously offered.</p>
<p>(Samadhi with any God is not the Ultimate Trance. The Ultimate Trance is the Union of Nuit and Hadit. That is why over the head of Ra-Hoor-Khuit in the stele, Kundalini has reached the Sahashara, and is radiating into Emptiness. See Liber VII, I.36-40, Liber HHH, Section SSS, and Liber LXV, III.31-36.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
