<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch037.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.34." class="level3">
<h3>I.34.</h3>
<p><em>But she said: the ordeals I write not: the rituals shall be half known and half concealed: the Law is for all.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-33" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>She replies.</p>
<p>She bade me know that the ordeals may not be written, since each man must go through a furnace of his own kindling. The Rituals: some were fitted for all men: some are fitted to one person, each making his own; and also there are those whose virtue lies in the silence wherewith they are begirt.</p>
<p>(34-35.) The Book AL is the Law for All Mankind.</p>
<p>The Book AL, Liber AL vel Legis, which I wrote down as I heard the Voice of Aiwass mine Holy Guardian Angel, in the City of Cairo in the Spring (April 8, 9, &amp; 10) of the year 1904 of the Vulgar Era, is the Law. This Law is the Law for all men alike.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-33" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The first demand is refused, or, it may be, is to be communicated by another means than writing.</p>
<p>[It has since been communicated.]</p>
<p>The second is partially granted; or, if fully granted, is not to be made wholly public.</p>
<p>The third is granted unconditionally.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-33" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The Ordeals are at present carried out unknown to the Candidate by the secret Magick Power of The Beast. Those who are accepted by Him for initiation testify that these Ordeals are frequently independent of His conscious care. They are not, like the traditional ordeals, formal, or identical for all; the Candidate finds himself in circumstances which afford a real test of conduct, and compel him to discover his own nature, to become aware of himself by bringing his secret motives to the surface.</p>
<p>Some of the Rituals have been made accessible, that is, the Magical Formulae have been published. See “The Rites of Eleusis”, “Energized Enthusiasm”, “Book 4, Part III”, “etc”.</p>
<p>Note the reference to ‘not’ and ‘all’. Also the word ‘known’ contains the root GN, ‘to beget’ and ‘to know’; while ‘concealed’ indicates the other half of the Human Mystery.</p>
<p>(The „other half‟ of the Human Mystery is, of course, Woman.</p>
<p>Aspirants must not fret because the ritual are „half concealed‟. Those who practice seriously attract the Attention of the Hierophant and the High Priestess, and what is concealed springs forth within them at the time it is needed. Also, this „hidden half‟ may vary accoridng to individual idiosyncrasy. If any ritual had been „completely‟ and „openly‟ given, we would have Dogma, and no doubt a „Church orf Thelema‟, complete with pope or popess or whatnot, by now. This ain‟t at all what the doctor ordered, chillun.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
