<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch036.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.33." class="level3">
<h3>I.33.</h3>
<p><em>Then the priest fell into a deep trance or swoon, &amp; said unto the Queen of Heaven; Write unto us the ordeals; write unto us the rituals; write unto us the law!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-32" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit asked by 666 for full instructions in writing.</p>
<p>I asked Nuit to write the rituals, the ordeals, and the law.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-32" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The prophet then demanded instruction: ordeals, rituals, law.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-32" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Law, in the common sense of the word, should be a formulation of the customs of a people, as Euclid’s propositions are the formulation of geometrical facts. But modern knavery conceived the idea of artificial law, as if one should try to square the circle by tyranny. Legislators try to force the people to change their customs, so that the “business men” whose greed they are bribed to serve may increase their profits.</p>
<p>(A.C. is being unduly harsh in his judgment of the motivations of lawmakers in capitalistic countries; but at the time of writing, Russia had embarked on the road to revolution, and the sublime optimist had hopes of seeing a Thelemic society emerge. In point of fact, Russia was to become even more bourgeois than the bourgeoisie, which happens every time people who consider themselves inferior have an opportunity to emulate those whom they consider, openly or secretly, their betters.</p>
<p>The main enemy of the commonweal, in any type of society, is neither personal greed nor personal ambition, but general stupidity and inertia. Evolution of the human animal has just started; the „beastie‟ is less than a few hundred thousand years old, and has barely learned to use one fifth of its new toy, the brain. You must expect error and inefficiency at every corner, and the attitude of the Adept towards his—fellows?–must be that of a patient, wary and humorous keeper in an asylum. If he loses his patience, he will kill the inmates; if he stops watching, they will kill him; and if he loses his sense of humor, that is to say, his sense of perspective, he will go insane himself.</p>
<p>Whenever you grow fed up with the whole setup, as you no doubt will, it may help you to consider that Humanity does, after all, progress. The Promulgation of the Law of Thelema, and Its conscious or unconscious adoption by the leading minds of the planet, would have been impossible at any other known historical period. Men have whispered „Do what thou wilt‟ in the past at other men‟s ear; but they either chose carefully to whom they whispered, or pretended they spoke in jest.)</p>
<p>‘Law’ in Greek, is NOMOC, from NEM , and means strictly “anything assigned, that which one has in use or possession”; hence “custom, usage”, and also “a musical strain”. The literal equivalence of NEM and the Latin NEMO is suggestive. (Let etymologists keep their temper; this is a hint directed not at them, but at Babes of the Abyss.) In Hebrew, ‘Law’ is ThORA and equivalent to words meaning “The Gate of the Kingdom” and “The Book of Wisdom”. (Heed well, O Children!)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
