<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch035.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.32." class="level3">
<h3>I.32.</h3>
<p><em>Obey my prophet! follow out the ordeals of my knowledge! seek me only! Then the joys of my love will redeem ye from all pain. This is so: I swear it by the vault of my body; by my sacred heart and tongue; by all I can give, by all I desire of ye all.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-31" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Mankind to obey 666, to follow his method of attainment to the knowledge of Nuit and the Benefits thereof. True nature of 666.</p>
<p>Let all men obey me, The Beast, the Prophet of Nuit! For my number is 666, the Number of the Sun. That is, I am the Light and Centre of their system of Stars; and my Word is as a ray to them who are of Earth. Let them obey the light, an Impulse of that which I am in Truth, although I lie deep hidden in a body of flesh. Seek ye to know Nuit! Seek to enjoy all that may be, although ye loathe it in your souls. This is your ordeal, which ye must pass in order to be free and whole; to know all things alike, to try, to do, to love and to rejoice in all.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-31" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The rule and purpose of the Order: the promise of Nuit to her chosen.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-31" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It is proper to obey The Beast, because His Law is pure Freedom, and He will give no command which is other than a Right Interpretation of this Freedom. But it is necessary for the development of Freedom itself to have an organization; and every organization must have a highly-centralized control. This is especially necessary in time of war, as even the so-called ‘democratic’ nations have been taught by Experience, since they would not learn from Germany. Now this age is pre-eminently a ‘time of war’, most of all now, when it is our Work to overthrow the slave-gods.</p>
<p>(The above reference to Germany is to the Germany of the First World War.</p>
<p>As for the „organization‟ referred to, there is the inherent difficulty that Thelemites abhor blind obedience just as much as they abhor automatic insubordination. Consequently, a Thelemic organization cannot be said to exist. The O.T.O., after several false starts, is dormant; the Order of Thelema at present has one single member; the A∴A∴, by the very nature of its Method, cannot be said to be an „organization‟ in the usual sense of the word. Nevertheless, it is the most efficient of the three!</p>
<p>For an „organization‟ to appear, it would be necessary that a sufficient number of highly intelligent, willful and resourceful individuals resolved, spontaneously and simultaneously, to obey. Only the A∴A∴ has been successful in this up to now. Organizations below the Abyss have in themselves the seed of their own destruction, and up to now this Will-to-Die has prevailed. That is as it should be: “who am I, that I should save this People?”)</p>
<p>The injunction “seek me only” is emphasized with an oath, and a special promise is made in connection with it. By seeking lesser ideals one makes distinctions, thereby affirming implicitly the very duality from which one is seeking to escape. Note also that “me” may imply the Greek ΜΗ {Me}, “not”. The word ‘only’ might be taken as ‘עלנו {?Ayin-Lamed-Nun-Vau?}’ with the number of 156, that of the Secret Name BABALON of Nuith. There are presumably further hidden meanings in the key-word ‘all’.</p>
<p>(The reader is here referred to our previous warning on the matter of the Vampire of this Ordeal (Commentary in italics to verse 27). If you seek Her only, you cannot confuse any one of Her manifestations with Her. On the other hand, as long as a particular priestess shows Her to you, concentrate! See Liber Artemis Iota and Liber A’ash for further information ont his very difficult point.</p>
<p>Nor should Aspirants fall into the mistake of believing that it is their duty to aspire to Her. Their duty is to do their Will, and nothing else. If it is thy Will to seek Her, do so. If it isn’t, do thy will. The Grades are Three, and „they also serve who stand and wait‟. Besides, She is everywhere! …)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
