<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch038.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.35." class="level3">
<h3>I.35.</h3>
<p><em>This that thou writest is the threefold book of Law.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-34" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(34-35.) The Book AL is the Law for All Mankind.</p>
<p>The Book AL, Liber AL vel Legis, which I wrote down as I heard the Voice of Aiwass mine Holy Guardian Angel, in the City of Cairo in the Spring (April 8, 9, &amp; 10) of the year 1904 of the Vulgar Era, is the Law. This Law is the Law for all men alike.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-34" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Definition of this book.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-34" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>(Readers will please note that it is threefold; therefore, if statements in any one chapter seem to contradict statements in another chapter (or even within the same chapter), contradiction is apparent, and there is a hidden key. Unless this continuity of the Law within the chapters, and from a chapter to another chapter, is kept in mind, Aspirants will fall into a quantity of pitfalls that have been provided by the Author — Aiwass — to winnow out the chaff.)</p>
<p>The instruction to write for three days from noon to one o’clock each day had already been given to The Beast.</p>
<p>(See Preface to this Commentary).</p>
<p>(This is again directed at the capitalistic system of the so-called democracies, and an outburst of enthusiasm unseemly in one who (see verse 15) was commanded to „gather my children into their fold‟. One must remember, however, that he was then very young.</p>
<p>As to the „Socialist‟ states from which he hoped so much, they have proved just as skillful in mutton-making as al the rest, if not more.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
