<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch034.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.31." class="level3">
<h3>I.31.</h3>
<p><em>For these fools of men and their woes care not thou at all! They feel little; what is, is balanced by weak joys; but ye are my chosen ones.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-30" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Mankind in general not worthy of attention.</p>
<p>Heed not the petty woes of men, trifles, with petty joys to square the account. These are but dreams within dreams, and those to whom I speak the Word of Nuit are chosen of Her to pass beyond these phantoms into the world of real joy and Sorrow — which also is Joy, and the Key and Force thereof.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-30" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(27-31.) Here is a profound philosophical dogma, in a sense possibly an explanation and illumination of the propositions in “Berashith”.</p>
<p>The dyad (or universe) is created with little pain in order to make the bliss of dissolution possible. Thus the pain of life may be atoned for by the bliss of death.</p>
<p>This delight is, however, only for the chosen servants of Nu. Outsiders may be looked on much as the Cartesians looked on animals.</p>
<p>Yet, of course, this is only on the plane of Illusion. One must not discriminate between the space marks.</p>
<p>(P.S. The Christian is one who has acquiesced in his own dishonour; a renegade from manhood).</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-30" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>(Again we find the expression „fools of men‟. Since not all men are fools, and since we, also, are men, the term obviously has a technical meaning. “Fools of men‟ are imperfect initiates, not necessarily „Black Brothers‟, but certainly including these. It is true that the Trance that most often leads Aspirants to the Path is the Trance of Sorrow; but it is necessary to be very hypocritical, or a Buddhist, or both, not to admit that what we seek in the Path is not „salvation‟ for „others‟, but our own salvation, meaning, in this case, Sorrow‟s Ceasing! The following Commentary by A.C. is illuminating:)</p>
<p>All this talk about ‘suffering humanity’ is principally drivel based on the error of transferring one’s own psychology to one’s neighbour. The Golden Rule is silly. If Lord Alfred Douglas (for example) did to others what he would like them to do to him, many would resent his action.</p>
<p>The development of the Adept is by Expansion – out to Nuit – in all directions equally. The small man has little experience, little capacity for either pain or pleasure. The bourgeois is a clod. I know better (at least) than to suppose that to torture him is either beneficial or amusing to myself.</p>
<p>This thesis concerning compassion is of the most palmary importance in the ethics of Thelema. It is necessary that we stop, once for all, this ignorant meddling with other people’s business. Each individual must be left free to follow his own path. America is peculiarly insane on these points. Her people are desperately anxious to make the Cingalese wear furs, and the Tibetans vote, and the whole world chew gum, utterly dense to the fact that most other nations, especially the French and British, regard ‘American institutions’ as the lowest savagery, and forgetful or ignorant of the circumstance that the original brand of American freedom – which really was Freedom – contained the precept to leave other people severely alone, and thus assured the possibility of expansion on his own lines to every man.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
