<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch040.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.37." class="level3">
<h3>I.37.</h3>
<p><em>Also the mantras and spells; the obeah and the wanga; the work of the wand and the work of the sword; these he shall learn and teach.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-36" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>666: His task as Teacher.</p>
<p>I am also bidden to learn and teach the way of doing Magick by means of saying<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> over many times certain Sacred texts, of writing words, symbols, figures, numbers and names of Power; – Magic by Speech, by secret Light of Darkness, by Deeds, by Acts which create Things or destroy them,<a href="#fn2" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">2</a> and so forth, as I define and expound in other writings.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-36" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>An entirely new system of magic is to be learnt and taught, as is now being done.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-36" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Mantras may be defined as sentences proper to concentration of the mind by virtue of their constant repetition. (See Book 4, Part I, Chapter II).</p>
<p>Spells are methods of communicating the will to other beings. (See Book 4, Part III).</p>
<p>The Obeah is the magick of the Secret Light with special reference to acts; the wanga is the verbal or mental correspondence of the same. The work of the wand is that of Union; of the sword, Division; these correspond to the two Phases of the Cosmic cycle described above. (See Book 4, Part II and Part III.</p>
<p>For the root OB (AVB = 9), see Appendix; {WEH NOTE: Appendix not yet recovered} it may be connected with the word “Obey”.</p>
<p>The “obeah” being the acts, and the “Wanga” the words, proper to Magick, the two cover the whole world of external expression.</p>
<p>“The Equinox” and “Book 4” are full of instruction on all these matters in great detail, and the student must make them his guide.</p>
<p>But I feel bound to observe that they must be studied merely as classics, just as a musician studies Bach and Others. He cannot compose by copying or combining their works; they serve him only as indications of the art of expression. He must master the technique, theory and practice, of music, til the general principles are absorbed, and he has command of the language, to use it to express his Will.</p>
<p>So with Magick; the student must understand and assimilate the basic propositions, and he must be expert in the drill of the practical details.</p>
<p>But that is merely ground-work: he must then conceive his own expression, and execute it in his own style. Each star is unique, and each orbit apart; indeed, that is the corner-stone of my teaching, to have no standard goals or standard ways, no orthodoxies and no codes. The stars are not herded and penned and shorn and made into mutton like so many voters! I decline to be bellwether, who am born a Lion! I will not be collie, who am quicker to bite than to bark. I refuse the office of shepherd, who bear not a crook but a club.</p>
<p>Wise in your generation, ye sheep, are ye to scamper away bleating when your ears catch my roar on the wind! Are ye not tended and fed and protected – until word come from the stockyard?</p>
<p>The lion’s life for me! Let me live free, and die fighting!</p>
<p>Now one more point about the obeah and the wanga, the deed and the word of Magick.</p>
<p>Magick is the art of causing change in existing phenomena. This definition includes raising the dead, bewitching cattle, making rain, acquiring goods, fascinating judges, and all the rest of the programme. Good: but it also includes every act soever? Yes; I meant it to do so. It is not possible to utter word or do deed without producing the exact effect proper and necessary thereto. Thus Magick is the Art of Life itself.</p>
<p>Magick is the management of all we say and do, so that the effect is to change that part of our environment which dissatisfies us, until it does so no longer. We “remould it nearer to the heart’s desire.”</p>
<p>Magick ceremonies proper are merely organized and concentrated attempts to impose our Will on certain parts of the Cosmos. They are only particular cases of the general law.</p>
<p>But all we say and do, however casually, adds up to more, far more, than our most strenuous Operations. “Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take care of themselves.” Your daily drippings fill a bigger bucket than your geysers of magical effort. The “ninety and nine that safely lay in the shelter of the fold” have no organized will at all; and their character, built of their words and deeds, is only a garbage-heap.</p>
<p>Remember, also, that, unless you know what your true will is, you may be devoting the most laudable energies to destroying yourself. Remember that every word and deed is a witness to thought, that therefore your mind must be perfectly organized, its sole duty to interpret circumstances in terms of the Will so that speech and action may be rightly directed to express the Will appropriately to the occasion. Remember that every word and deed which is not a definite expression of your Will counts against it, indifference worse than hostility. Your enemy is at least interested in you: you may make him your friend as you never can do with a neutral. Remember that Magick is the Art of Life, therefore of causing change in accordance with Will; therefore its law is “love under will”, and its every movement is an act of love.</p>
<p>Remember that every act of “love under will” is lawful as such; but that when any act is not directed unto Nuith, who is here the inevitable result of the whole Work, that act is waste, and breeds conflict within you, so that “the kingdom of God which is within you” is torn by civil war.</p>
<p>To the beginner I would offer this programme:</p>
<ol type="1">
<li><p>Furnish your mind as completely as possible with the knowledge of how to inspect and to control it.</p></li>
<li><p>Train your body to obey your mind, and not to distract its attention.</p></li>
<li><p>Control your mind to devote itself wholly to discover your true Will.</p></li>
<li><p>Explore the course of that Will till you reach its source, your Silent Self.</p></li>
<li><p>Unite the conscious will with the true Will, and the conscious Ego with the Silent Self. You must be utterly ruthless in discarding any atom of consciousness which is hostile or neutral.</p></li>
<li><p>Let this work freely from within, but heed not your environment, lest you make difference between one thing and another. Whatever it be, it is to be made one with you by Love.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>Why am not I to learn and teach the work of the Cup and of the Disk? Is it because they are the feminine weapons? Shall the Scarlet Woman attend to these? The Book does not say so; the passives are ignored. I feel the omission as a lack of balance, the only case of the kind in the Book. This makes me certain that there is a special meaning. This wand and sword may not be the wand and sword, or rather dagger, of the elemental weapons. The Wand may be that of the Fool, the sword that of justice, whose letters are A &amp; L; AL is the Key of the whole Book.</p>
<p>We may also take them as simple symbols, the one as that of Love, the other as that of War. But, looking back over sixteen years, what have I learnt and taught? Surely the work of the wand, the free use of the Will to create, and the way to give power to the Will. I have set it up and caused men to worship it, for its name is God-in-action. As to the work of the sword, I have fought, I have shorn shams asunder, I have anatomized my mind as no man has done since Gautama. Last, I have shown how pure analysis leads to the highest Trance, and unveils the absolute Truth.</p>
<p>If this text imply more than this, I know not of it; I ask pardon of Them that fashioned me and chose me for Their minister.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Originally “repeating” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn2">
<p><a href="#fnref2" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">2</a>. Originally “acts of creation and destruction” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
