<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch047.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.44." class="level3">
<h3>I.44.</h3>
<p><em>For pure will, unassuaged of purpose, delivered from the lust of result, is every way perfect.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-43" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Will: its possible defects.</p>
<p>Purpose takes the edge off pure will; for it implies conscious thought, which should not replace what Nature intends.<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> Work is done best when the mind does not know of it, either to urge or check its course. The lust of result also spoils work; one must not distract one‘s forces from their task by thoughts of the profit of success.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-43" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Recommends “non-attachment.” Students will understand how in meditation the mind which attaches itself to hope of success is just as bound as if it were to attach itself to some base material idea. It is a bond; and the aim is freedom.</p>
<p>I recommend serious study of the word “unassuaged” which appears not very intelligible.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-43" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This verse is best interpreted by defining ‘pure will’ as the true expression of the Nature, the proper or inherent motion of the matter, concerned. It is unnatural to aim at any goal. The student is referred to “Liber LXV”, Cap. II, v. 24, and to the “Tao Teh King”. This becomes particularly important in high grades. One is not to do Yoga, etc., in order to get Samadhi, like a schoolboy or a shopkeeper; but for its own sake, like an artist.</p>
<p>“Unassuaged” means “its edge taken off by” or “dulled by”. The pure student does not think of the result of the examination.</p>
<p>(The best commentary to this verse is to be found in Liber II, “The Message of the Master Therion”.)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Originally “Nature’s bent” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
