<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch045.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.42." class="level3">
<h3>I.42.</h3>
<p><em>Let it be that state of manyhood bound and loathing. So with thy all; thou hast no right but to do thy will.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-41" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(42-43.) The Right of Man.</p>
<p>This case may be taken as a guide to other problems of ethics. The rule is in truth single, the same in essence for all matters of conduct. Each has the perfect right to do his Will, that for which he is fit; all other use of power is an abuse.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-41" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(41-42.) Interference with the will of another is the great sin, for it predicates the existence of another. In this duality sorrow consists. I think that possibly the higher meaning is still attributed to “will.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-41" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>“Manyhood bound and loathing.” An organized state is a free association for the common weal. My personal will to cross the Atlantic, for example, is made effective by co-operation with others on agreed terms. But the forced association of slaves is another thing.</p>
<p>A man who is not doing his will is like a man with cancer, an independent growth in him, yet one from which he cannot get free. The idea of self-sacrifice is a moral cancer in exactly this sense.</p>
<p>Similarly, one may say that not to do one’s will is evidence of mental or moral insanity. When “duty points one way, and inclination the other”, it is proof that you are not one, but two. You have not centralized your control. This dichotomy is the beginning of conflict, which may result in a Jekyll-Hyde effect. Stevenson suggests that man may be discovered to be a “mere polity” of many individuals. The sages knew it long since. But the name of this polity is Choronzon, mob rule, unless every individual is absolutely disciplined to serve his own, and the common, purpose without friction.</p>
<p>It is of course better to expel or destroy an irreconcilable. “If thine eye offend thee, cut it out.” The error in the interpretation of this doctrine has been that it has not been taken as it stands. It has been read: If thine eye offend some artificial standard of right, cut it out. The curse of society has been Procrustean morality, the ethics of the herd-men. One would have thought that a mere glance at Nature would have sufficed to disclose Her scheme of Individuality made possible by Order.</p>
<p>((That most living things live from other living things is no objection. See Liber 418 for the Curse that turns into a Blessing, the Call of the Aethyrs.)</p>
<p>A subsidiary meaning of the verse is that you should not attack directly or indiscriminately social states that are unhealthily organized. You should do your will, and tackle only obstacles that present themselves I the path of your will.</p>
<p>But others are suffering under bondage! — I hear a fool say. If so, the freedom that you granted them would be just another kind of bondage. The slaves shall serve, no matter what the social system may be. Only those who gain freedom for themselves are free, because freedom must be a spiritual state INSIDE you before its effects begin to manifest in your environment. Russia made a revolution to free herself form the control of a minority. It is still under control of a minority — the spiritual descendants of the minority who made the revolution: the Communist Party. The mass of the people are still slaves, like the mass of the people in any other country. The general standard of living has improved, but it is debatable whether it would not have improved faster, with less sacrifice, through social evolution rather than revolution, the way it happened in America and Britain.</p>
<p>We Thelemites are neither revolutionaries nor proselytizers. We do not aim to change the world, we aim to change ourselves. That is how we leaven our environment. It is by learning to know our True Will, nad doing it, that we bring fresh fire to offer them an example of personal freedom.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
