<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch044.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.41." class="level3">
<h3>I.41.</h3>
<p><em>The word of Sin is Restriction. O man! refuse not thy wife, if she will! O lover, if thou wilt, depart! There is no bond that can unite the divided but love: all else is a curse. Accursed! Accursed be it to the aeons! Hell.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-40" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Sin defined. The Nature of Freedom.</p>
<p>Sin is defined as Restriction: that is; the setting of limits, or the desire to set limits, to any thing that is, seeing that as above set forth the true Nature of all things is to fulfil themselves in all Ways. Yet though all things be thus lawful in themselves, it is often Restriction to act, and Freedom to refrain. For that Freedom is worth the other, and each case must be judged by its own Nature.</p>
<p>Duty of a Thelemite towards others.</p>
<p>Seek not to control the will of any other in the matter of Love, setting Limits either to the Will to Love or the Will to seek elsewhere the Goal of Will. For Love itself is the sole bond; all others set up strains against the Nature of Things: whereby cometh at last the ruin of all.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-40" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(41-42.) Interference with the will of another is the great sin, for it predicates the existence of another. In this duality sorrow consists. I think that possibly the higher meaning is still attributed to “will.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-40" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The first paragraph is a general statement or definition of Sin or Error. Anything soever that binds the will, hinders it, or diverts it, is Sin. That is, Sin is the appearance of the Dyad. Sin is impurity. « One cannot say that it was “Sin” for Naught to restrict itself within the form of Two; on the contrary. But sin is to resist the operation of the reversion to Naught. “The wages of Sin is Death;” for Life is a continual harmonious and natural Change. See Liber 418 and Liber AlephLiber Aleph.</p>
<p>Sin (See Skeat’s Ety. Dict.) is connected with the root “es”, to be. This throws a new light on the passage. Sin is restriction, that is, it is ‘being’ as opposed to ‘becoming’. The fundamental idea of wrong is the static as opposed to the dynamic conception of the Universe. This explanation is not only in harmony with the general teaching of the Book of the Law, bit shows how profoundly the author understands Himself.»</p>
<p>The remainder of the paragraph takes a particular case as an example. There shall be no property in human flesh. The sex-instinct is one of the most deeply-seated expressions of the will; and it must not be restricted, either negatively by preventing its free function, or positively by insisting on its false function.</p>
<p>What is more brutal than to stunt natural growth or to deform it?</p>
<p>What is more absurd than to seek to interpret this holy instinct as a gross animal act, to separate it from the spiritual enthusiasm without which it is so stupid as not even to be satisfactory to the persons concerned?</p>
<p>The sexual act is a sacrament of Will. To profane it is the great offence. All true expression of it is lawful; all suppression or distortion is contrary to the Law of Liberty. To use legal or financial constraint to compel either abstention or submission, is entirely horrible, unnatural and absurd. Physical constraint, up to a certain point, is not so seriously wrong; for it has its roots in the original sex-conflict which we see in animals, and has often the effect of exciting Love in his highest and noblest shape. Some of the most passionate and permanent attachments have begun with rape. {WEH NOTE: but see the New Comment on verse 51.} Rome was actually founded thereon. Similarly, murder of a faithless partner is ethically excusable, in a certain sense; for there may be some stars whose Nature is extreme violence. The collision of galaxies is a magnificent spectacle, after all. But there is nothing inspiring in a visit to one’s lawyer. Of course this is merely my personal view; a star who happened to be a lawyer might see things otherwise! Yet Nature’s unspeakable variety, though it admits cruelty and selfishness, offers us no example of the puritan and the prig!</p>
<p>{WEH NOTE: Crowley’s determined ignorance of Natural History as a subject of study is ably presented by his own direct affirmation in several of his works. Harem oriented species, including seals, sheep, cows, … have a puritanical prig at the top of the pecking order. Pack and colony animals, such as wolves and meercats, often allow sex between only two individuals in the pack. At least it’s not as bad as the parish priest who denounced homosexuality with the observation that it did not occur in animals, including dogs!}</p>
<p>However, to the mind of Law there is an Order of Going; and a machine is more beautiful, save to the Small Boy, when it works than when it smashes. Now the Machine of Matter-Motion is an explosive machine, with pyrotechnic effects; but these are only incidentals.</p>
<p>Laws against adultery are based upon the idea that woman is a chattel, so that to make love to a married woman is to deprive the husband of her services. It is the frankest and most crass statement of a slave-situation. To us, every woman is a star. She has therefore an absolute right to travel in her own orbit. There is no reason why she should not be the ideal hausfrau, if that chance to be her will. But society has no right to insist upon that standard. It was, for practical reasons, almost necessary to set up such taboos in small communities, savage tribes, where the wife was nothing but a general servant, where the safety of the people depended upon a high birth-rate. But to-day woman is economically independent, becomes more so every year. The result is that she instantly asserts her right to have as many or as few men or babies as she wants or can get; and she defies the world to interfere with her. More power to her – elbow!</p>
<p>The War has seen this emancipation flower in four years. Primitive people, the Australian troops for example, are saying that they will not marry English girls, because English girls like a dozen men a week. Well, who wants them to marry? Russia has already formally abrogated marriage. Germany and France have tried to ‘save their faces’ in a thoroughly Chinese manner, by ‘marrying’ pregnant spinsters to dead soldiers!</p>
<p>England has been too deeply hypocritical, of course, to do more than “hush things up”; and is pretending ‘business as usual’, though every pulpit is aquake with the clamour of bat-eyed bishops, squeaking of the awful immorality of everybody but themselves and their choristers. Englishwomen over 30 have the vote; when the young ’uns get it, good-bye to the old marriage system.</p>
<p>America has made marriage a farce by the multiplication and confusion of the Divorce Laws. A friend of mine who had divorced her husband was actually, three years later, sued by him for divorce!!!</p>
<p>But America never waits for laws; her people go ahead. The emancipated, self-supporting American woman already acts exactly like the ‘bachelor-boy’. Sometimes she loses her head, and stumbles into marriage, and stubs her toe. She will soon get tired of the folly. She will perceive how imbecile it is to hamstring herself in order to please her parents, or to legitimatize her children, or to silence her neighbours.</p>
<p>She will take the men she wants as simply as she buys a newspaper; and if she doesn’t like the Editorials, or the Comic Supplement, it’s only two cents gone, and she can get another.</p>
<p>Blind asses! who pretend that women are naturally chaste! The Easterns know better; all the restrictions of the harem, of public opinion, and so on, are based upon the recognition of the fact that woman is only chaste when there is nobody around. She will snatch the babe from its cradle, or drag the dog from its kennel, to prove the old saying: “Natura abhorret a vacuo. For she is the Image of the Soul of Nature, the Great Mother, the Great Whore.</p>
<p>It is to be well noted that the Great Women of History have exercised unbounded freedom in Love. Sappho, Semiramis, Messalina, Cleopatra, Ta Chhi, Pasiphae, Clytaemnaestra, Helen of Troy, and in more recent times Joan of Arc (by Shakespeare’s account), Catherine II of Russia, Queen Elizabeth of England, George Sand, “George Eliot.” Against these we can put only Emily Bronte, whose sex-suppression was due to her environment, and so burst out in the incredible violence of her art, and the regular religious mystics, Saint Catherine, Saint Teresa, and so on, the facts of whose sex-life have been carefully camouflaged in the interests of the slave-gods. But, even on that showing, the sex-life was intense, for the writings of such women are overloaded with sexual expression passionate and perverted, even to morbidity and to actual hallucination.</p>
<p>Sex is the main expression of the Nature of a person; great Natures are sexually strong; and the health of any person will depend upon the freedom of that function.</p>
<p>(See “Liber CL”, “de Lege Libellum”, Cap. IV, in “The Equinox” III (1).)</p>
<p>(Also, the following Chapters of Liber AlephLiber Aleph: 3-6, 17, 18, 20, 22, 24-34, 44-46, 57-65, 85, 95-98, 104, 105, 111; 112, 140, 142-144.</p>
<p>There is a technical aspect to the above verse which may be of importance to a certain type of Aspirant of either sex. In one sense, Sin is but the Babylonian Moon-God, who is represented on seal-cylinders as an old man with flowing beard. The crescent moon was his symbol. This conception is totally hostile to ours. To us, the Moon is a feminine symbol. Further, our Hermit o the Tarot is solar, not lunar. „Sin‟ is essentially homosexual. His word is Restriction because his nature is twisted.</p>
<p>Perhaps because of Hebrew enslavement by the Babylonians, Jehovah acquired several of the markedly homosexual characteristics of Sin. The God of the Jews is a homosexual‟s concept of maleness: Harsh, violent, revengeful, merciless. There are no equilibrating qualities. It is Geburah at its worst. I must come as a surprise to those who do not know their Qabalah tht this image of the Male is incomplete. As a matter of fact, Geburah is Female. It is Chesed — Mercy — which is Male. The qualities that homosexuals attribute to masculinity are nothing but psychological transference. Women, who are much more qualified to judge, like men to be gentle and considerate. They want men to be strong, and hard, and even harsh, of course — but they want to feel an underlying basis of qualities which homosexuals are inclined to attribute to the female.</p>
<p>In Jewish Theology there is no Woman Concept. The Creator is „all-boy‟, and one must surmise that He produced the Universe through some astounding feat of male parthenogenesis. These homosexual tendencies reflect themselves in the harsh intolerance of Mosaic law towards women. Wives ARE chattels. Women are not admitted to worship. Adulteresses are stoned to death.</p>
<p>These „super-male‟ (Sin is nothing of the sort, of course; he is an „under-male‟) traits are not exclusive to Judaism. One finds them in all religions that associate the concept of spiritual purity with sexual abstinence. Sexual abstinence is „good‟ only in an athletic sense. And some biological types experience no good effects from it. Some athletes copulate more during and after an athletic event than normally, and perform just as well or better for it. This is a matter to be decided strictly by personal judgment. To establish sexual abstinence as a religious rule for all, indiscriminately, is insensate. “Yet there are those who have dared and achieved thereby” (see Liber 175). Certainly: but others have achieved without it, and anyway, once you achieve, why not outgrow the old toys and go on to other things?</p>
<p>We take Judaism as an example only because the sexual morality preached in the West is essentially Old Testament stuff. It is useless that Christians should pretend they are Christians when they persist in interpreting their „Jesus‟ in the same terms that orthodox Jews ascribe to a „good‟ Rabbi! Were we to believe for one moment that the Gospels are the biography of an actual, historical, person, we would have to remember that „Jesus‟ was hated by the Jewish priesthood, and was tortured to death through the efforts of the High Priest. „Jesus‟ was described as a drunkard, a friend of sinners and a Roman sympathizer. He kept none of the Mosaic regulations. Indeed, he went so far as to suggest that Mosaic law had been created for man, and not otherwise! That he seems to have appreciated whores—and vice-versa—is repeatedly pointed out. Historical or not, the intention was obviously to introduce a more humane—we shall go further, and say human—note in Jewish mores. It is deplorable that the attempt took fifteen hundred years to succeed, and did so thanks not to priests and theologians, but to freethinkers and scientists. Or perhaps it is not deplorable at all.</p>
<p>To men educated in societies influenced by Sin morals, a wife is a piece of property. „Adulterer‟ can be punished by murder of the „unfaithful‟ spouse. One must remark that this cuts both ways. Women of such societies are jealous and petty and unforgiving. What is more, the dichotomy of their mores necessarily is reflected in their personalities. They are often shockingly promiscuous behind their husband‟s backs, but they condemn themselves for it. At the same time, they hate and fear women who are openly independent. They are whores that stick—or pretend to stick—to one customer. Sexually, they delight in dirty affinities. At the same time, they are prim and prude. Frankness shocks them—they equate it with grossness. Yet, you can get them to perform in the grossest manner in sex. Such women like to be humiliated. They despise themselves and hunger for debasement. Men who service them to their satisfaction are usually latent homosexuals who fear the op0posite sex, and want to strike out against what they fear. Such women are usually indifferent housekeepers and never rise far in the professions, being lazy by temperament, stupid or indisciplined in the intellect, and in conflict with their own true wills.</p>
<p>Paradoxical though it may seem, Sin mores disapprove violently of sexual deviations. Sin men hat homosexuals and feel compelled to beat them or insult them. This excessive reaction of hostility is a defense mechanism. They feel attracted, therefore they fear. A society that is sexually equilibrated will tolerate exceptions. A society that is sexually unhealthy will not, because its balance is unstable, and it is easily upset by deviations.</p>
<p>One must add that the above remarks are just as true of societies where the concept of the Female exists without the Male.</p>
<p>While it is true that everybody has absolute right to interpret the external — or the internal — Universe as they please, an interpretation that is too partial or twisted leads inevitably to interference with the will of others. Thelemites will find themselves hampered at every turn by people whose concept of God is homosexual. They will try to restrict your personal freedom to serve their perverted moral values. You will find that the idea that sex can be a form of spiritual expression repels them strongly. Sin societies admit and tolerate phallicism. They understand a sexual orgy, but not a sexual Mass. Sex, for them, is connected with the concept of Original Sin, and this is what necessitates—for them—the existence of a Sacrament of Marriage. The purpose of the Sacrament is to impart holiness to something that is holy in itself. This is because the sex act shakes the very roots of the tree of the Ego, and the Ego that does not have its roots deep and firm in the dark ground of the Racial Stream fes the shaking. It is true that no unstable personality can go temporarily insane as a result of the sex act, particularly if the sex act is of a type that is subconsciulsy desires but consciously fears. But such isanity Is the “Change that is the Rottenness of Choronzon” (See Liber AlephLiber Aleph, Chapter 105), and eventually the Personality reorganizes itself salong lines more healthily adjusted to Life and Nature, provided no fool (of men!) interferes with the process.</p>
<p>The injunctions “O man!” and „O lover‟, etc., refer technically to certain ordeals proper to the Grades of man of Earth and Lover, besides the general meaning given in A.C.‟s Commentary.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
