<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch048.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.45." class="level3">
<h3>I.45.</h3>
<p><em>The Perfect and the Perfect are one Perfect and not two; nay, are none!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-44" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(45-48.) A Riddle concerning “The Perfect.”</p>
<p>Nuit is moved by the word “perfect” to announce a Riddle wherein the Mystery “Nothing is Perfect” is proved by means of the Secret Wisdom of Letters and and Numbers: which Riddle I will expound in other writings.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-44" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Perhaps means that adding perfection to perfection results in the unity and ultimately the Negativity.</p>
<p>But I think there is much more than this.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-44" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Here begins one of the characteristically difficult passages of this Book. The author, Aiwaz, is careful to identify Himself at intervals by such Speech. The interpretation, when thoroughly grasped, is invariably quite overwhelming by its simplicity. It is for this reason that this Book should be studied with all assiduity; at any moment the answer to your own deepest problem may be signalled to you from the Stars.</p>
<p>(Serious students are referred to our note to verse 11. The Perfect is Zero, and no matter how many times you add Zero to Zero, you always get Zero.</p>
<p>There is a technical meaning to this verse which is of the utmost importance to Zelators. The Grade of Zelator reflects that of Magister Templi in the Lower Triad — see Liber 418 on Jesod — and the Zelator becomes acquainted with that influence which we call Choronzon — 333.</p>
<p>Without speculating on the nature of this “mighty Devil” which has power to persecute any member of the A∴A∴ as long “as thou art thou” — see Liber 418, the Tenth Aethyr — we may say simply that the Aspirant will be approached by all kinds of people who will talk as if inspired, or talk as if they are Masters, and who will attempt to advise or to warn him, or just to make contact with hi and be acknowledged as Gods speaking.</p>
<p>Pay no attention to them. They are simply Choronzon, one and all.</p>
<p>True “Gods are Perfect, and will not speak to you. They and you have different True Wills. They do not consider themselves competent to advise a fellow Star. Only your Holy Guardian Angel can do it. And the Angel speaks within you. He is not you-and He never pretends to be! But He speaks within you.</p>
<p>All “messages” from Choronzon have as their sole purpose to test your understanding of the Law of Thelema, and fidelity thereunto.</p>
<p>This is a very difficult note to understand, unless you have some Initiatic Experience. You must be at least a Neophyte to get something from it. For the Central Experience of the Grade is the Vision of the Holy Guardian Angel, and the Vision, although it is not to be confused with the Knowledge and Conversation obtaining in Tiphereth of Tiphereth, imparts your first inkling of Spiritual Perspective.</p>
<p>Although this to not to the point, we might as well add a further warning: Neophytes must guard themselves against the tendency to confuse the Vision with the Knowledge and Conversation, that is, to think themselves Adepts Within, and Zelators must keep in mind that they are not Masters of the Temple!</p>
<p>If they were Masters of the Temple, Choronzon would no longer speak to them. For He who is a Magister Templi is no longer he. See Liber AlephLiber Aleph, Chapters 164-165.</p>
<p>There is a Siddha‟ in Yoga, described by Patanjali, which consists of the ability to penetrate another‟s mind, “and assume control thereof‟. This „power‟ is often employed by „Black Brothers‟, especially if the other mind belongs to one of the sick currents started by themselves. In such a case, the cakkrams of the owner of the mind are attuned to the influence of the „Black Brother‟, and his or her astral is „in sympathy‟ with the „Black Brother‟ influence.</p>
<p>This unworthy „power‟ is never used by true Gods. The Perfect crossed the Abyss: He is defined as being at least a Master of the temple. True Initiates NEVER interfere with another human’s will. However, they are in communion with ALL human wills in a manner incomprehensible by, and inexplicable to, the profane. Even the highest types of Samadhi give only a pale idea of this communion. It is the true and genuine Communion of the Saints, and the Grail, the Cup in the hand of our Lady BABALON, is its symbol. Readers are referred to Liber LXV, Chapter I, vv. 3, 18, 63; Chapter ii vv. 4-6, 26, 28-29, 43; Chapter iii, v. 17-20, 47-48, 61, 65; Chapter iv, vv. 47, 51, 60; chapter v, vv. 1, 15-18, 22-24, 59-64, See also Liber VII, Chapter vii, vv. 41-52; Liber I, and Liber 156.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
