<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch049.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.46." class="level3">
<h3>I.46.</h3>
<p><em>Nothing is a secret key of this law. Sixty-one the Jews call it; I call it eight, eighty, four hundred &amp; eighteen.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-45" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(45-48.) A Riddle concerning “The Perfect.”</p>
<p>Nuit is moved by the word “perfect” to announce a Riddle wherein the Mystery “Nothing is Perfect” is proved by means of the Secret Wisdom of Letters and and Numbers: which Riddle I will expound in other writings.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-45" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>61 = אונ {Aleph-Vau-Nun}. But the True Nothing of Nuit is 8, 80, 418. Now 8 is ח‎ {Cheth}, which spelt fully, חית {Cheth-Yod-Taw}, is 418. And 418 is Abrahadabra, the word of Ra-Hoor-Khuit. Now 80 is פּ {Pe}, the letter of Ra-Hoor-Khuit. [Qy. this.]</p>
<p>(Could 80 = {infinity} 0. Infinity x Zero?)</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-45" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>See Appendix {WEH NOTE: Appendix not yet recovered.}</p>
<p>(The Jews call it AIN, 61, Not. They are aware of the Key, but their awareness is unbalanced. They arrive to it only through mysticism or Qabalistic metaphysics, and their Spiritual Experience is insufficient. It leads them to consider themselves the “Chosen People”, with the result that Hebrew initiates often behave like spoiled children, interfering with the work of Initiates higher than themselves. Then, just like children, having cast breezes, they complain when they harvest storms.</p>
<p>Aiwass calls the key eight, eighty, four-hundred &amp; eighteen. These three numbers give a balanced process of Training which includes both Magick and Mysticism. As a result, the Initiate acquires sufficient Spiritual Experience not to make the same blunders as do “asses in lion skin”.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
