<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch046.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.43." class="level3">
<h3>I.43.</h3>
<p><em>Do that, and no other shall say nay.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-42" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(42-43.) The Right of Man.</p>
<p>This case may be taken as a guide to other problems of ethics. The rule is in truth single, the same in essence for all matters of conduct. Each has the perfect right to do his Will, that for which he is fit; all other use of power is an abuse.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-42" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>“No other” shall say “nay” may mean —</p>
<p>No-other (= Nuit) shall pronounce the word No, uniting the aspirant with Herself by denying and so destroying that which he is.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-42" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The general meaning of this verse is that so great is the power of asserting one’s right that it will not long be disputed. For by doing so one appeals to the Law. In practice it is found that people who are ready to fight for their rights are respected, and let alone. The slave-spirit invites oppression.</p>
<p>(The above comment by A.C. is generally true, but there are particulars. There are Stars and stars. Each has it path; that path may go strange ways. Those whose Will is difficult, or likely to affect their fellowmen more than others, may expect hardship in proportion to the Weight and Scope of the purpose in life. Witness His own life!)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
