<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch057.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.54." class="level3">
<h3>I.54.</h3>
<p><em>Change not as much as the style of a letter; for behold! thou, o prophet, shalt not behold all these mysteries hidden therein.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-53" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit repeats that 666 must respect the MS. of AL.</p>
<p>I am bidden once more not to tamper with the text of the MS. of Liber AL on he ground that it contains secrets beyond my knowledge.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-53" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(54-55-56.) to the word “child.”</p>
<p>A prophecy, not yet (May 1909 O.S.) fulfilled, so far as I know. I take it in its obvious sense.</p>
<p>{WEH NOTE : Fulfilled An. XII, Sun in 0 degrees Cancer.}</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-53" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The subject changes most abruptly, perhaps answering some unspoken comment of the scribe on the capital T’s in ‘To me’.</p>
<p>This injunction was most necessary, for had I been left to myself, I should have wanted to edit the Book ruthlessly. I find in it what I consider faults of style, and even of grammar; much of the matter was at the time of writing most antipathetic. But the Book proved itself greater than the scribe; again and again have the ‘mistakes’ proved themselves to be devices for transmitting a Wisdom beyond the scope of ordinary language.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
