<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch050.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.47." class="level3">
<h3>I.47.</h3>
<p><em>But they have the half: unite by thine art so that all disappear.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-46" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(45-48.) A Riddle concerning “The Perfect.”</p>
<p>Nuit is moved by the word “perfect” to announce a Riddle wherein the Mystery “Nothing is Perfect” is proved by means of the Secret Wisdom of Letters and and Numbers: which Riddle I will expound in other writings.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-46" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Let us, however, add the Jewish half 61. 8 + 80 + 418 = 506. “Cf.” verses 24, 25. 506 + 61 = 567 = 27 x 21 = ?</p>
<p>But writing 506 qabalistically backwards we get 605, and 605 + 61 = 666.</p>
<p>666 = 6 x 111, and 111 = א {Aleph} = 0 in Taro = 1 + 2 + … + 36, the sum of the numbers in the Magic Square of Sol. = the Number of the Beast</p>
<p>Or, taking the keys of 8, 80, 418, we get vii., xvi., vii., adding to 30. 30 + 61 = 91 = אמן {Aleph-Mem-Nun}, Amen.</p>
<p>This may unite Nuit with Amon the negative and concealed. Yet to my mind she is the greater conception, that of which Amoun is but a reflection.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-46" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>See Appendix {WEH NOTE: Appendix not yet recovered.}</p>
<p>(They have half of the key. HALF = 5+1+30+6=42. 4+2=6, the Sun, The Jews have, in common with Thelemites, awareness of the Sun Current. This they acquired through the Eqyptian Initiate they called Moses and “adopted” as a Jew. It is with motive that they have been called “Children of Satan”. Truly, the “Eye that watches over Israel never sleeps”. But that Eye watches over everybody!</p>
<p>“unite by thine art sot hat all disappear”. This phrase sent certain debased elements within Jewish Occultism hunting for Aleister Crowley as long as he lived. Thelemites have been pointed (by these same so-called occultists) as the originators of the Nazi party. The fact that the Nazis destroyed all copies of the Book of the Law in Germany, and seized all translations of A.C.‟s works, and put the Outer Head of the O.T.O. (who, incidentally, was married to a Jewess) in a concentration camp is not mentioned. Equally, these people seem not to realize that the Nazis treated them exactly as the Jews treated the “heathen” in the Old Testament. Hitler was a personification of all of Jehovah‟s attributes—only, this time, turned against “His People”…Even the concept of the superiority of the „Aryan race‟ and the inferiority of the „Semites‟ mirrors the ineffable presumption of the People Elect and its attitude towards its fellowmen.</p>
<p>All Karma has to be paid, and the Jews paid theirs. As compensation, through two thousand years of persecution they ad to sharpen their wits until today they compose one of the most intelligent and efficient cultural groups on the surface of the planet. If the Nazis had been half as intelligent, they would have married Jewish women and sterilized only the men. Germany might have won the war, then. But the Nazis were stupid. They were as stupid as Old testament Jews.</p>
<p>When a book is the only book that by chance is preserved and by design transmitted throughout fifteen centuries, it may well become The Book. The Bible is one of the most brutish, most cruel, most fanatic cultural records extant. Its religious fables are either naïve or fatuous. It has neither the loftiness of the Pyramid texts nor the human compassion fo the Sumerian. It has neither the subtlety of the Chinese classics nor the psychological depth of the Hindu. But it was the only book the West knew for centuries — and look at the record of the West during those centuries!</p>
<p>Indeed, “unite the thine art so that all disappear”. Unite — not destroy. Unite togther under the banner of an enlightened humanity, free of all the ignorant idiocy of national, cultural or religious prejudice; free to experience the grandeur of our true identity as radiant Stars within the Body of Our Lady Nuit. Any self-concept that falls short of this is utterly fallacious.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
