<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch056.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.53." class="level3">
<h3>I.53.</h3>
<p><em>This shall regenerate the world, the little world my sister, my heart &amp; my tongue, unto whom I send this kiss. Also, o scribe and prophet, though thou be of the princes, it shall not assuage thee nor absolve thee. But ecstasy be thine and joy of earth: ever To me! To me!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-52" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Earth to enter upon a higher stage by use of this formula.</p>
<p>This way of Freedom — to do all things yet be bound by none of them — shall bring new life to Earth.</p>
<p>Nuit: Her private word to 666.</p>
<p>Follows a message to me, which I need not explain in this place.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-52" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The prophet is retained as the link with the lower.</p>
<p>Again the word “assuage” used in a sense unintelligible to me.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-52" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It is clear that this ‘kiss’ (i.e. this Book) will regenerate Earth by establishing the Law of Liberty. ‘My heart and my tongue’ seems a mere phrase of endearment; but has possibly some deep significance which at present escapes me.</p>
<p>(Heart — the seat of intelligence for the ancient Egyptians. Tongue — the organ of the Word, corresponding to the Phallus, for which it is often an euphemism. A possible meaning is therefore heart Ra-Hoor-Khuit, tongue Thoth. See Liber Resh.)</p>
<p>The second paragraph is perhaps in answer to some unspoken thought of my own that my work was accomplished. No: though I be ‘of the princes’ with the right to enter into my reward, it is my destiny to continue my Work. « “assuage thee:” satisfy thing aspiration to attainment. “absolve thee:” relieve thee from further duty. » I am however promised ecstasy, i.e. Samadhi and joy of earth; and this promise has been fulfilled without limit. The last words “ever To me! To me!” have a double sense. My motto at that time was OV MH – “No! certainly not,” the “Not That! Not That!” of certain very exalted Hindu mystics. Our Lady of the Stars not only calls me to Her, but bestows upon me as a name ‘To me’ – To ΜΗ {Mu-eta} – “The Not”, the Attainment of that Aspiration expressed in my motto. And To ΜΗ {To Mu-eta} adds to 418!</p>
<p>Note, yet a third time, the word ‘prince’ as applied to the Beast.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
