<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch051.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.48." class="level3">
<h3>I.48.</h3>
<p><em>My prophet is a fool with his one, one, one; are not they the Ox, and none by the Book?</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-47" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(45-48.) A Riddle concerning “The Perfect.”</p>
<p>Nuit is moved by the word “perfect” to announce a Riddle wherein the Mystery “Nothing is Perfect” is proved by means of the Secret Wisdom of Letters and and Numbers: which Riddle I will expound in other writings.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-47" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>See above for 111. “My prophet is a fool,” “i.e.” my prophet has the highest of all grades, since the Fool is HB:A.</p>
<p>I note later (An V., Sun. in Aquarius) that “v.” 48 means that all disappears when 61 + 8, 80, 418 are reduced to 1. And this may indicate some practical mystic method of annihilation. I am sure (Sun in Libra, An VII.) that this is by no means the perfect solution of these marvellous verses.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-47" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>I think that the surface meaning of this verse is to answer the unspoken criticism of the scribe, who did not see how to find a zero value for such an equation. It assured him that it was only necessary to find a Unity Value.</p>
<p>(Crowley, who knew the attributions of AIN, and its mystical meaning, had become troubled since the dictation of verse 45. “But are not the Perfect, all of them, just One?” he kept asking mentally as dictations went on. Finally Aiwass incorporates his doubt in the Text, answering it out loud, and speaking for the Godess.</p>
<p>The key is, of course, that Monotheism is a lie. Belief in the Oneness of Man is a great comfort to the Ego. “I am the One!” cries every „Black Brother‟. The Master of the Temple answers not, for He is Not.</p>
<p>The Ox — Aleph is the Ox, of course, 1 by the Qabalah and Zero by the Book of Thoth, the Taro. Also, Aleph in full — ALP — is 111, “one, one, one”. It is also indicative that the two letters of OX in English suggest the Cross and the Circle.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
