<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch053.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.50." class="level3">
<h3>I.50.</h3>
<p><em>There is a word to say about the Hierophantic task. Behold! there are three ordeals in one, and it may be given in three ways. The gross must pass through fire; let the fine be tried in intellect, and the lofty chosen ones in the highest. Thus ye have star &amp; star, system &amp; system; let not one know well the other!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-49" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit instructs 666 in his duties as Hierophant.</p>
<p>Nuit instructs me now in my Work of training men to become Masters and Adepts by putting them through ordeals. I am to purge their brute souls [originally “animal souls”]<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> by fire — to burn out their grossness by kindling the Lust of the Spirit within them. Their minds are to be tested by trials of mind; and those rare souls marked from the hour of birth to attain the lofty summits to the Mountain of Magick must be made perfect by ordeals suited to their natures. Yet by my wit I am bidden to devise such means as may attain all three objects in a single Test, in the manner explained elsewhere.</p>
<p>Three types of Ordeal for three parts of the Soul. Regulations of the Order of A∴A∴.</p>
<p>Stars — that is, men whose souls shed Light — must not be grouped at random in the Order, but each must have his own proper place and orbit. Sometimes it may be wise to form a system of stars as are by Nature fit to work in groups [originally “work together”]:<a href="#fn2" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">2</a> but even so, keep each unit intent on its own proper Going, let it not know, more than needs must, the Way of other Stars and Systems, lest falling from its own Way, it follow after others, or jostle them, and confuse thus the Order of Heaven.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-49" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Our system of initiation is to be triune.<br />
For the outer, tests of labour, pain, etc.<br />
For the inner, intellectual tests.<br />
For the elect of the A ∴ A ∴, spiritual tests.<br />
Further, the Order is not to hold lodges, but to have a chain-system.</p>
<p>{WEH NOTE: This was written when Crowley had not yet joined O.T.O. and before he chartered O.T.O. lodges}</p>
<p>(These ordeals are general: all Aspirants to Thelemic Initiation must pass through them. The conditions and circumstances always vary according to the individual case.</p>
<p>Don’t think, either, that the ordeals get easier as you progress. They get harder. The late ordeals would disintegrate your vehicles in the early stages of Initiation.)</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-49" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It would be improper to make extended commentary on this verse, since the nature of the ordeals is not to be written. It is only necessary to say that these ordeals are singularly thorough in all ways, and cannot be dodged. They are real, not formal, tests of the candidate.</p>
<p>Persons accustomed to the schoolboy jokes of Freemasonry please take notice.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Originally “animal souls” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn2">
<p><a href="#fnref2" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">2</a>. Originally “work together” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
