<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch059.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.56." class="level3">
<h3>I.56.</h3>
<p><em>Expect him not from the East, nor from the West; for from no expected house cometh that child. Aum! All words are sacred and all prophets true; save only that they understand a little; solve the first half of the equation, leave the second unattacked. But thou hast all in the clear light, and some, though not all, in the dark.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-55" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(55-56.) A “child” of 666 to behold in AL those secrets which are hidden from 666. Nature and Office of this Child.</p>
<p>I am promised: “the child of thy bowels … shall behold them.”<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> This involves the future, and demands special comment elsewhere. The coming of that child is defined in such terms that when he arrives he may be surely known.</p>
<p>Prophets and Scriptures of the past party true: AL contains the whole truth of Conscious, and some of Unconscious Thought.</p>
<p>Nuit admits that all the prophets of the Past have spoken, and the sacred scriptures before given by the Masters to men contain, some truth. But they have applied to local conditions, and those of time; thus all are partly false. Liber AL has no such limits, so it is true for all. I have learnt all the secrets of all the old cults, purged them of partial trend, and balanced them: this is my knowledge of them complete so far as the Reason is concerned; I have also some, though not all, Truth of the Inmost Order.</p>
<p>(Through this Book AL has it been given unto me to perfect almost wholly this Utmost of Truth.)</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-55" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(54-55-56.) to the word “child.” A prophecy, not yet (May 1909 O.S.) fulfilled, so far as I know. I take it in its obvious sense.</p>
<p>from the word “Aum.”</p>
<p>All religions have some truth.</p>
<p>We possess all intellectual truth, and some, not all, mystic truth.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-55" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>All previous systems have been sectarian, based on a traditional cosmography both gross and incorrect. Our system is based on absolute science and philosophy. We have “all in the clear light”, that of Reason, because our Mysticism is based on an absolute Scepticism. But at the time of this writing I had very little mystic experience indeed, as my record shows. The Fact is that I was far, far from the Grade even of Master of the Temple. So I could not properly understand this Book; how then could I effectively promulgate it? I comprehended but dimly that it contained my Word; for the Grade of Magus then seemed to me unthinkably high above me. Also, let me say that the True Secrets of this Grade (of Magus) are unfathomable and awful beyond all expression; the process of initiation thereto was continuous over years, and contained the most sublime mystic experiences – beyond any yet recorded by man – as mere incidents in its terrific Pageant.</p>
<p>The “equation” is the representation of Truth by Word.</p>
<p>(It will be noticed that the subject of the verse changes abruptly after the word “Aum!” A.C. had thought of this word at this moment; it was one that he respected a lot, and he had become very agitated in mind since the positive assertion, in verse 49, that all words were abrogated. But AUM — 111 — is, in fact, an imperfect hieroglyph, although years were to pass before he understood this. See Liber 4, Part III, Chapter 7, Section 5. There is also a Chapter of Liber 333 that should, with is Commentary, be carefully studied by serious Aspirants, since the „Black Brothers‟ — of course! — still try to employ the abrogated word in its superannuated meaning, and this is one of the traps of the slaves of „Because‟ that Thelemites must avoid. The Chapter is Chapter 54.</p>
<p>They understand „a little‟ — this may be interpreted as meaning that they understand the meaning of The Fool, Aleph, 111, only in a minor way. They are „fools of men‟, not The Fool. (On the other hand, see „little‟, below.)</p>
<p>AUM is related to Aleph qabalistically by number — 111 in each case. The termination is in “Death” in the sense of Mystical Sacrifice, the Dying God, the Witness — MN, the Hanged Man. Since Aum was the Word of Krishna, the most ancient known form of the Dying God (later cynically adopted in the Roman Catholic Pantheon as “Saint Sebastian”), it is a natural connotation of the Magus‟s message. It may be difficult for a minor Hindu initiate to absorb the idea that AU M is, after all, an imperfect hieroglyph. Krishna has been worshipped in India for ten thousand years, brutish mankind may have gone a little further in its study of the Universe in which we live! At least some Tantrists of high initiation and a few of the Siva &amp; Kali worshippers perceive why the Spiritual Name of Aleister Crowley in the Hindu Initiatic tradition is MAHATMA GURU SRI PARAMAHANSA SHIVAJI.</p>
<p>„Little‟ — 30+10+9+30+5=93. Hoor-paar-kraat is The Fook, and Aiwass His minister. This throws light onthe function of this Ipsissimus. He is the Hierophant of the Magi, jst as 666, His pupil, is, at present, the Hierophant of the Masters of the Temple.)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Originally “promised that the child of my bowels shall behold them” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
