<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch052.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.49." class="level3">
<h3>I.49.</h3>
<p><em>Abrogate are all rituals, all ordeals, all words and signs. Ra-Hoor-Khuit hath taken his seat in the East at the Equinox of the Gods; and let Asar be with Isa, who also are one. But they are not of me. Let Asar be the adorant, Isa the sufferer; Hoor in his secret name and splendour is the Lord initiating.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-48" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>The New Aeon: All previous formulæ now obsolete. The New Initiation-Ritual indicated.</p>
<p>All secret keys of the former Magick of the Aeon of the Dying God are now useless, since the Lord of this New Aeon of which I am the prophet is the Crowned and Conquering Child. Asar, the Man who suffers,<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> is no longer the type of Godhead to which Man must aspire. He needs no more to die and rise again: His great Work is now to come to know Himself as the Child ever-living. sinless, perfect, the all-shining Sun.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-48" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Declares a New System of Magic and initiation. Asar — Isa — is now the Candidate, not the Hierophant. Hoor — see Cap. III. — is the Initiator.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-48" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This verse declares that the old formula of Magick – the Osiris-Adonis-Jesus-Marsyas-Dionysus-Attis-etcetera formula of the Dying God – is no longer efficacious. (It never was efficacious; it was merely the least deficient formula possible I the Aeon of Pisces just past.) It rested on the ignorant belief that the Sun died every day, and every year, and that its resurrection was a miracle.</p>
<p>The Formula of the New Aeon recognizes Horus, the Child crowned and conquering, as God. We are all members of the Body of God, the Sun; and about our System is the Ocean of Space. This formula is then to be based upon these facts. Our “Evil”, “Error”, “Darkness”, “Illusion”, whatever one chooses to call it, is simply a phenomenon of accidental and temporary separateness. If you are “walking in darkness”, do not try to make the sun rise by self-sacrifice, but wait in confidence for the dawn, and enjoy the pleasures of the night meanwhile.</p>
<p>The general illusion is to the Equinox Ritual of the G∴ D∴ where the officer of the previous six months, representing Horus, took the place of the retiring Hierophant, who had represented Osiris.</p>
<p>(The “general allusion” is nothing of the sort. This verse is a categorical statement, to be taken in the most objective way by any Aspirant to Initiation. All the rituals, words and signs of past Initiatic Orders are abrogate. You must not let yourself be conned by any of them. See “The Ship”.</p>
<p>Asar and Isa are one, that is, they are different forms of the same formula, the Central Formula of the Minor Mysteries. The difference between their rites is simply a matter of psychological convenience. Lee Liber 175, verse 2, for this important point.</p>
<p>“Let Asar be the adorant”. In our System, the Candidate presents himself before Horus, to invoke Him, under the paraphernalia of Asar. If the Candidate is wise, he will make sure that he possesses the magical and mystical powers of which the paraphernalia are merely the symbols. For Ra-Hoor-Khuit demands that you bind the Words and the Deeds.</p>
<p>“Isa the sufferer”. This expression needs to explanation if you have any acquaintance wth the sado-masochistic nature of Christian mysticism, especially where Roman Catholicism predominates. Some people are happy only when they suffer. Let them be. See Liber LXV, v, verses 7-10, 19-22, 47-51. Who are you to chart another star‟s course?</p>
<p>“But they are not of me.” In one sense, this means that those who identify themselves with either Asar or Isa can become “stars of Her body” only by death — be this death Initiatic or physical. In another sense, it means that they are of Her all the time, since in truth they are not. But as long your Sahasharsa is not active, for you She does “not” exist.)</p>
<p>Isa is the Legendary “Jesus”, for which Canidian concoction the prescription is to be found in my book bearing that title, “Liber DCCCLXXXVIII”.</p>
<p>(A.C. is unduly harsh with “Jesus”. This is because at the time of writing the Commentaries his personality was still reacting against the brainwashing of his early upbringing. Christian worship is not really more repugnant than its parent, Attys worship. It is more a matter of clinical interest for psychiatrists today than a matter for condemnation by Thelemites. Ih His late years, having worked many changes by Hid Magick, He nonlonger pait attention to it. But He never thought it funny. Pathological methods of mysticism are funny only to pathological minds.)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Originally “Asar, the Suffering man” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
