<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch063.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.60." class="level3">
<h3>I.60.</h3>
<p><em>My number is 11, as all their numbers who are of us. The Five Pointed Star, with a Circle in the Middle, &amp; the circle is Red. My colour is black to the blind, but the blue &amp; gold are seen of the seeing. Also I have asecret glory for them that love me.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-59" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit: Her symbolic Figure.</p>
<p>Nuit declares her Nature in a Riddle of Number and Colour and Form: this also is elsewhere explained being a matter of Magick and Wisdom proper to vowed Students rather than to the profane.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-59" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Nu = 56 and 5 + 6 = 11.</p>
<p>The Circle in the Pentagram? See Liber NV.</p>
<p>The uninitiated perceive only darkness in Night: the wise perceive the golden stars in the vault of azure.</p>
<p>Concerning that Secret Glory it is not here fitting to discourse.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-59" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The general significance of the number 11 is Magick, particularly that form of it which is Love under Will; for it unites the 5 and the 6. Thus Abrahadabra has 11 letters; and 418 = 11 x 38.</p>
<p>This number must be thoroughly studied by the Qabalah. See Appendix {WEH NOTE: Appendix not yet recovered.}</p>
<p>In the original MSS. the second paragraph begins “The shape of my star is” — and then breaks off — the Scribe was unable to hear what was being said. This was presumably because his mind was so full of preconceived ideas about the different kinds of stars appropriate to various ideas. An alternate phrase was subsequently dictated to the Scarlet Woman, and inserted in the manuscript by her own hand.</p>
<p>This star is the pentagram, with the single point at the top. The points touch the parts of Nuith’s body as shown in the Stele. The earth-point marks the position of her feet, the fire-point, that of her hands, the other three points — air, spirit, and water respectively — refer to “my secret centre, my heart, and my tongue.”</p>
<p>(See Liber NV for all this.</p>
<p>“…who are of us.” US=6+60=66. “Who are of the Sun and use the Positive Current of Force.” (6x11=66).</p>
<p>Also, 66=12, which is a number of the Zodiac.</p>
<p>US, therefore, indicates “those who belong to the Sun, who use the Force of AUD, and who are of the Woman “that jetteth out the milk of the stars from her paps‟” — the Milky Way, our particular Galaxy.</p>
<p>The Law “is for all”, but Thelemites are defined as those who fulfill the above conditions. You must make no mistake. There are people who are of the Sun, but use the Force of AUB; they are not Thelemites. There are people who use the Force of AUD, but are not of the Sun, nor of any other star of our Galaxy — they are guests in our system, so to speak. They, also, are not Thelemites. It is with those two cases that a mistake is most likely, since there are some points of sympathy, or rather, empathy; “thou hast no right but to do thy will.”</p>
<p>This note is for member of the Grades of Practicus, Philosophus, and Dominus Liminis. But the Zelator will be wise if he tries to fathom it, since he “begins to study the formula of the Rosy Cross.”)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
