<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch064.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.61." class="level3">
<h3>I.61.</h3>
<p><em>But to love me is better than all things: if under the night stars in the desert thou presently burnest mine incense before me, invoking me with a pure heart, and the Serpent flame therein, thou shalt come a little to lie in my bosom. For one kiss wilt thou then be willing to give all; but whoso gives one particle of dust shall lose all in that hour. Ye shall gather goods and store of women and spices; ye shall wear rich jewels; ye shall exceed the nations of the earth in spendour &amp; pride; but always in the love of me, and so shall ye come to my joy. I charge you earnestly to come before me in a single robe, and covered with a rich headdress. I love you! I yearn to you! Pale or purple, veiled or voluptuous, I who am all pleasure and purple, and drunkenness of the innermost sense, desire you. Put on the wings, and arouse the coiled splendour within you: come unto me!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-60" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit: to love Her the Supreme Wisdom.</p>
<p>Love being the law of all Life, to love Nuit is to love the Essence itself of the sum of all objects of Love in the figure of one single Image of Beauty: it thus the Drawing-to-a-Point of the Will, which might else seem diverse; thus it is “better than all things.”</p>
<p>Nuit: the Mode of Union with Her.</p>
<p>Follows a Method whereby to unite<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> the Soul with Her; to me, Alastor the Spirit of Solitude, the command is plain; and to be taken at the letter, as I have done, and now am doing, even at this hour, as I write this “under the night-stars in the desert” in the Oasis of Nefta in Tunisia.</p>
<p>Yet also there is a hidden meaning, so that the dwellers in cities may invoke Nuit: and this will I set forth, not only as in Liber XI<a href="#fn2" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">2</a> but in simple and easy words; in a fit time and place.</p>
<p>Nuit: ways of worship.</p>
<p>This verse contains very many marvels in other matters also: in concerns the Crossing of the Abyss, as I have described in The Vision and the Voice: also, such ways of worship are prescribed as define Her inmost Nature: this also I shall write elsewhere.</p>
<p>Note most of all that She, the Sum and Essence of All Things that may be, fulfils Herself as these are all fulfilled by each Star in any Event. Indeed, she is not whole while aught remain latent, a phantom of desire; thus doth each act of Love under Will not only perfect him that doeth it, but also Her of whom it is one jewel.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-60" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Practical and literal, yet it may be doubted whether “to lose all in that hour” may not refer to the supreme attainment, and that therefore to give one particle of dust (perhaps the Ego, or the central atom Hadit her complement) is the act to achieve.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-60" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This ritual has been thoroughly worked out as an Official Instruction of A∴A∴ Liber NV sub figura XI, (see Equinox I, VII, page 11).</p>
<p>(See Liber NV for the general preparation for this Rite of Worship.</p>
<p>“Pure heart”— see Liber Aleph, Chapter 65; the Preliminary Invocation of Liber LXV; the Obverse of the Stele 666. Also, the Book of the Dead. (Which was never “for the Dead”. It was the standard Manual of Astral Travel, which people were supposed to practice assiduously while they lived. The mummification had as its purpose to delay the dissolution of the Astral Body of the deceased so that as much of it as possible went with him or her in the next incarnation, thus providing continuity of consciousness through the lives. But this was a gross artifice, not to be compared with Our Way, for which see Liber Aleph, Chapters 192-193. The Book was put in the tomb or sarcophagus because supposedly the owner had used it constantly, which provided a further link. But in practice, just as few people studied it as study the Bible today, although you find the damn silly thing all over the place.)</p>
<p>“Single robe”: an Aura clean and whole, without any leak of force anywhere. “Rich headdress”: the Sahashara activated. “Put on the wings”: awaken the Ajna, which when active has two petals, or wings. “Coiled splendour”: Kundalini, of course.</p>
<p>The above interpretations are on just one plane. Several other details have better remain uncommented.</p>
<p>One further word is necessary as to the rich jewels, store of women and spices, etc. All this must be gathered “in the love of me.” This means that our wealth must be acquired, our love must be enjoyed, without the least harm to the will of any other human being or to mankind in general. This, by the way, is the ideal of every man, as long as he is healthy in mind and spirit. There is more on this in the Second and Third Chapters.)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Originally “of uniting” crossed out at this point (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn2">
<p><a href="#fnref2" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">2</a>. a.k.a. Liber NU. Published in Equinox I (7) and Gems from the Equinox – V.C.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
