<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch061.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.58." class="level3">
<h3>I.58.</h3>
<p><em>I give unimaginable joys on earth: certainty, not faith, while in life, upon death; peace unutterable, rest, ecstasy; nor do I demand aught in sacrifice.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-57" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>???</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-57" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The Grace of our Lady of the Stars.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-57" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>These joys are principally (1) the Beatific Vision, in which Beauty is constantly present to the recipient of Her grace, together with a calm and unutterable joy; (2) the Vision of Wonder, in which the whole Mystery of the Universe is constantly understood and admired for its Ingenium and Wisdom. (1) is referred to Tiphereth, the Grade of Adept; (2) to Binah, the grade of Master of the Temple.</p>
<p>The certainty concerning death is conferred by the Magical Memory, and various Experiences without which Life is unintelligible.</p>
<p>“Peace unutterable” is given by the Trance in which Matter is destroyed; “rest” by that which finally equilibrates Motion.</p>
<p>“Ecstasy” refers to a Trance which combines these.</p>
<p>“Nor do I demand aught in sacrifice” — The ritual of worship is Samadhi. But see later, verse 61.</p>
<p>(The above commentary is very lofty, and had as its purpose to refute certain critics who pointed out that Nuit gave or promised “indecent” rewards to her worshippers. Those who follow the Method of “Isa the sufferer” cannot understand joy as a religious feeling.</p>
<p>However, there is not one young person, or one healthy person, who will not experience a feeling of wonder and worship on contemplating the liquid beauty of a cloudless starry sky.</p>
<p>Also, it is not necessary to be a Magister Templi, or even an Adept, to experience Her rewards. It is enough to love Her as much as She loves you. (This, fastidious thinkers will remark is a gross anthropomorphization. You are quite right. And to hell with you.) See Liber NV.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
