<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch060.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.57." class="level3">
<h3>I.57.</h3>
<p><em>Invoke me under my stars! Love is the law, love under will. Nor let the fools mistake love; for there are love and love. There is the dove, and there is the serpent. Choose ye well! He, my prophet, hath chosen, knowing the law of the fortress, and the great mystery of the House of God.</em></p>
<p><em>All these old letters of my Book are aright; but צ {Tzaddi} is not the Star. This also is secret: my prophet shall reveal it to the wise.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-56" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Nuit: duty of mankind to invoke Her.</p>
<p>Nuit commands mankind to invoke Her, that is, to fulfil their utmost Selfhood, under Her stars, that is, by the study of all other Points of View beside one’s own.</p>
<p>The method of Magick: Love the mode in which Will operates.</p>
<p>The method of Magick in this — and in all — Work is: “love under will.” The word love (Agape in Greek) has the value of 93, like that of θέλημα, will. This implies that love and will are in truth one and the same, two phases of one theme. Love is thus shown as the means by which will may be brought to success.</p>
<p>Love: its two main types: its possible defects.</p>
<p>Men are warned against error in this matter of love. There are two main modes of love, the symbol of one being the dove, of the other the serpent. These symbols and their meanings in ethics, with their bearing on “the law of the fortress, and the great mystery of the House of God” are explained by me fully elsewhere.</p>
<p>Aiwass: a proof of His Knowledge beyond that of any man: a problem which had always baffled human wisdom solved rightly in a phrase. The ancient wisdom of the Tarot otherwise correct in all points.</p>
<p>The sublime Knowledge, more than that of any living man, possessed by Aiwass, is now shewn by giving the correct value of one of the Tarot Trumps (unknown till that time) which perfects their balance<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> as had baffled the wit of all men to do. We are also warned against any “folly” of trying to improve upon the ancient and well-tried and trusty values — save at this one point where they were shewn weak.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-56" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Invoke me, — etc. — I take literally. See Liber NV for this ritual.</p>
<p>Love under will — no casual pagan love; nor love under fear, as the Christians do. But love magically directed, and used as a spiritual formula.</p>
<p>The fools (not here implying א {Alef} fools, for III., 57 says, All fools despise) may mistake.</p>
<p>This love, then, should be the serpent love, the awakening of the Kundalini. The further mystery is of פּ {Pe} and unsuited to the grade in which this comment is written.</p>
<p>The last paragraph confirms the Tarot attributions as given in 777. With one secret exception.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-56" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>“Love is the law, love under will”, is an interpretation of the general law of Will. It is dealt with fully in the Book “Liber AlephAleph”.</p>
<p>I here insert a few pertinent passages from that Book.</p>
<p>“This is the evident and final Solvent of the Knot Philosophical concerning Fate and Freewill, that it is thine own Self, omniscient and omnipotent, sublime in Eternity, that first didst order the Course of thine own Orbit, so that that which befalleth thee by Fate is indeed the necessary Effect of thine own Will. These two, then, that like Gladiators have made War in Philosophy through these many Centuries, art made One by the Love under Will which is the Law of Thelema.</p>
<p>O my Son, there is no Doubt that resolveth not in Certainty and Rapture at the Touch of the Wand of our Law, and thou apply it with Wit. Do thou grow constantly in the Assimilation of the Law, and thou shalt be made perfect.</p>
<p>Behold, there is a Pageant of Triumph as each Star, free from Confusion, sweepeth free in its right Orbit; all Heaven acclaimeth thee as thou goest, transcendental in Joy and in Splendour; and thy Light is as a Beacon to them that Wander afar, strayed in the Night. Amoun.”</p>
<p>The “old comment” covers the rest of this verse sufficiently for the present purpose.</p>
<p>I see no harm in revealing the mystery of Tzaddi to ‘the wise’; others will hardly understand my explanations.</p>
<p>Tzaddi (צ) is the letter of The Emperor, the Trump IV, and He is The Star, the Trump XVII. Aquarius and Aries are therefore counterchanged, revolving on the pivot of Pisces, just as, in the Trumps VIII and XI, Leo and Libra do about Virgo. This last revelation makes our Tarot attributions sublimely, perfectly, flawlessly symmetrical.</p>
<p>The fact of its so doing is a most convincing proof of the superhuman Wisdom of the author of this Book to those who have laboured for years, in vain, to elucidate the problems of the Tarot.</p>
<p>(“All these old letters of my Book are aright”: in the Tree of Life diagrams there is no need to change the position of the letters. It is only the attributions to the Tarot Trumps that must be corrected.</p>
<p>Dove — symbol of heterosexual love. Serpent — symbol of homosexual love. Thelemites must choose well. Well: 6+6+5+30+30=77, OZ, a Goat, The Devil. Also, “ye” = YOD+HE = 15, which is 3 x 5, which suggests the Path of Cheth, The Chariot, the link between Binah and Geburah, but also III x V, the Empress couples with the Hierophant, and XV, The Devil again. Yod + He is The Hermit plus The Star. Also, 1 + 5 = 6, the Sun.</p>
<p>“Choose” implies that a choice must be made and a mistake avoided. “The stars also have tribes and nations” — see Liber 418, and Chapter 77 of Liber 333. The general key is that you should practice homosexuality only with a fellow Thelemite.</p>
<p>The House of God, in a sense, is the Phallus, XV, the Devil, but also is Pe, 80, the Blasted Tower. Still in another sense, the Phallus being God, the House of God is the Kteis, in this case the Empress, Atu III, Beth, the letter of the Magician, also means House, and this is that mystery concerning Sin the Babylonian Moon-God and its influence, that we have already spoken about.</p>
<p>Serious students are referred to Book Four, Part III, Chapter IV, the long note ont he word ALIM: to the Scholion on Liber Samekh, Book Four, Part III, Appendix IV, Section J: to Liber AlephLiber Aleph, Chapters 173-176, 185; to verses 14-21 and 34-36 of Liber CCCLXX; and to the Hymn in Liber XV.</p>
<p>Also, since Hadit is the highest possible conception f the Phallus, higher even than Yod, it follows that the ultimate House of God is Nuit. That is obvious, since youare a star, therefore Hadit, and live in Her! Which brings us back to the first sentence of the verse.)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Originally “by a correction of the values of the T[arot] T[rumps] which perfects their symmetry” (note by original typist).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
