<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch065.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="i.62." class="level3">
<h3>I.62.</h3>
<p><em>At all my meetings with you shall the priestess say — and her eyes shall burn with desire as she stands bare and rejoicing in my secret temple — To me! To me! calling forth the flame of the hearts of all in her love-chant.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-61" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(62-63.) Nuit: Her public Cult.</p>
<p>Now lastly she ordains her public cult. Her image, she being All-Desired, shall be a living Woman, calling to her that Spirit which shall make her perfect in Event. Of all this Rite I have written in another place.<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a></p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-61" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(62-63.) Again practical and literal. Yet the “Secret Temple” refers also to a knowledge incommunicable — save by experience.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-61" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It is evident that Our Lady, in her Personality, contemplates some more or less open form of worship suited for the laity. (Absolutely not, See our note below.) With the establishment of the Law something of this sort may become possible. It is only necessary to kill out the sense of ‘sin’, with its false shame and its fear of nature.</p>
<p>P.S. The Gnostic Mass is intended to supply this need. “Liber XV”. It has been said continuously in California for some years.</p>
<p>(A.C. was wrong. The verse states quite clearly: “as she stands bare and rejoicing in my secret temple” The temple is secret. Worship of Nu is reserved for her „chosen‟, which means, those who love her.</p>
<p>On the plane of relgions, the influence of the Law consists in making them tolerate each other, so that all men may worship in the temple or manner of their choice, without interference even from those whose theory of the Universe is utterly contrary to theirs. See Liber OZ, and Chapter 35 of Liber Aleph. Also, the atheist has as much right to his opinion as anybody else, and perhaps more: “There is no God where I am.”</p>
<p>Liber XV was read in California for several years, the Mass was performed, and interviews were given to reporters, who referred to that particular group as “The Purple Cult.” It was indeed purple, and perhaps a bit too voluptuous. Love must be under will, and the word of the Law is THELEMA, not AGAPE!</p>
<p>There is another reason, and a very important one, why the temple must be secret. It is best if it is located in a cave, or at least surrounded by very thick walls. For nowadays, radiation of all types interferes with “Orgonic light.” The Pyramids were specially built having Star Presence in mind: if conditions demanded such a shield to normal radiation then, how much more necessary now!</p>
<p>Readers must not mistake our meaning when we say that radiation of all types interferes with Starlight. Of course, Starlight is too subtle — “faint &amp; faery” — to be interfered with even by atomic radiation. It is our organisms that, under the constant bombardment of radiation from grosser sources — noise, radio, TV, subsonics, etc. — become unable to perceive, and attune themselves to, Her Presence. It is not for nothing that Nuit recommends that we worship her at night and in the desert!)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. The reference is probably to Liber LXV – V.C.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
