<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch088.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.19." class="level3">
<h3>II.19.</h3>
<p><em>Is a God to live in a dog? No! but the highest are of us. They shall rejoice, our chosen: who sorroweth is not of us.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-84" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>A God cannot live in a dog; the token of Godship is to be free to act, to dwell in an abode, and work with tools, suited to the nature of their Will. The Highest only are of Hadit; all failure to attain the perfect marks some lack of knowledge of one’s nature as a Symbol of Him in one or other Form. Aiwass repeats his doctrine about joy and sorrow in more solemn terms, thus leading up to the full Force of His thought.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-84" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(17-21.) This passage was again very painful to the prophet, who took it in its literal sense.</p>
<p>But “the poor and the outcast” are the petty thoughts and the qliphothic thoughts and the sad thoughts. These must be rooted out, or the ecstasy of Hadit is not in us. They are the weeds in the Garden that starve the Flower.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-84" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>A god living in a dog would be one who was prevented from fulfilling his function properly. The highest are those who have mastered and transcended accidental environment. They rejoice, because they do their Will; and if any man sorrow, it is clear evidence of something wrong with him. When machinery creaks and growls, the engineer knows that it is not fulfilling its function, doing its Will, with ease and joy.</p>
<p>(Its Will, in this case, being a Bud-Will of the engineer — we hope. Readers will ntoe that “God” and “dog” are the same value by the Qabalah, but the letters are inverted in order. In either case, the value is either 77 — if we treat the 0 as an Ayin — or 13, if we treat the O as a Vau. 77 is the Goat, the Devil; 13 is the Atu Death, in which the central figure once again is Saturn, the Great One of the Night of Time. This is the “God No” — the God who can live in a dog. Again, there is an identification between the Qabalistic values of No and ON, for which see Liber XV and others. “No” can, of course, be written NV, 56, Nuit; but is also 50+70=120, the mystical age of the Adept Minor. The Adept Minor has crossed that Veil on one side of which is written “No separate existence”, and on the other, “No existence”.</p>
<p>There is, of course, one God who lives in a dog — the God Anubis, who guides the soul in the Underworld. This is a hint for members of a certain Grade. It must also be remarked that “the Dog” was one of the names ascribed to the “Devil” in the Middle Ages.</p>
<p>The verse has, therefor, several subtle technical manings which will depend for usefulness on they Grade of the reader — which, by the way, is the case with any verse of Liber AL. The general meaning, however, is that ascribed by A.C., with the added value that “dog” is “God” inverted. Men and women called “dogs” are, therefor, people who are functioning with their polarity inverted — who are functioning as animals, rather than as “lords of the earth”. This, by the way, is the case with any person who worships a “God” outside himself or herself, instead of perceiving God (any God!) within. And the key is to reverse the formula. Instead of “loving” or “fearing” your “God”, BE you “God”! He, she, or it is nothing but a projection of your own consciousness, any way. “There is no God where I am.”</p>
<p>Certain rather amusing little obsessions through which Aspriants may pass had better be mentioned. First, is the idea that Liber AL recommends that all dogs be killed. Second, the idea that all dogs conceal a “spy” — from which you gravitate naturally to the previous conclusion. Third, the idea that dogs should be “despised” or “mistreated” or treated as human beings. (Or rather, better than you would treat a human being, as some doge lovers do!) They should be treated like dogs, that is, like any other animals — with respect. (By “respect” is not meant that the Chinese must stop eating chow!)</p>
<p>One of the more amusing obsessions in this connection is that concerning Sirius — the “Dog Star”. Certain “initiates” who fear 666 and Liber AL whisper to their “disciples” that “the site of the rosy-Cross Brotherhood is in Sirius.” Meaning, of course, themselves. Poor Sirius!…</p>
<p>Any person who has not achieved consciousness of his or her own Godhead tends to mistreat animals. Either is too cruel towards them, or too kind. A member of a certain American family who achieved great political notoriety was actually known, during the last World War (World War II, or the benefit of future readers), to demand that his dog be given a seat in the last plane to leave an island in the Pacific. The dog weighted as much as a wounded G.I., but a G.I. remained behind so the gentleman‟s dog could return to the bosom of the gentleman‟s family. The gentleman had already been elected to public office, and was elected again. It can never be too often repeated that nay people always have the government they deserve.</p>
<p>In connection with this and other verses of this Chapter, serious students should consult Liber LXV, I, 21; ii, 3; iii, 37-39; iv, 60; v, 5; and Liber VII, iv, 8; vi, 5-6.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
