<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch084.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.15." class="level3">
<h3>II.15.</h3>
<p><em>For I am perfect, being Not; and my number is nine by the fools; but with the just I am eight, and one in eight: Which is vital, for I am none indeed. The Empress and the King are not of me; for there is a further secret.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-80" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(15-16.) Also, to distract and amuse my mind, to make me curious enough to be willing to proceed, He proposed a Riddle of the Nature of Hadit, so that I might know most surely beyond doubt that He was skilled in Knowledge of all secret marvels of letter and number in sacred tongues and scripts, lest I persuade myself that I myself had written this Book of my own motion. Therefore He shewed me Wisdom and Cunning beyond my wit to conceive, and marvels never yet known to any man that was of woman born. This Riddle, with its fellows, will I expound elsewhere, so that all men may know of a surety that not I, nor any man, but a Great Angel in very sooth, spake in mine ear the Words of His Book.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-80" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>I am perfect, being Not (31 לא {HB:LA} or 61 אין‎ {HB:AYN}).</p>
<p>My number is Nine by the fools (IX. the Hermit of Virgo and Mercury).</p>
<p>With the just I am Eight. VIII., Justice Libra Maat ל {Lamed}, and One in Eight, א {Aleph}.</p>
<p>Which is Vital, for I am None indeed, לא {HB:LA}.</p>
<p>The Empress {Daleth} III., the King ה {He} IV., are not of me. III. + IV. = VII.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-80" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>See Appendix. {WEH NOTE: not available.}</p>
<p>(Readers should consult AL I, 45-48 and the Commentaries thereof for “perfect, being Not”; also, the analysis of the Word LAShTAL in Liber V; also, Liber LXV, ii, 26.</p>
<p>For “nine by the fools,” they should consult Atu IX and Atu XI (Atu XI because Teth has the value 9 in the Qabalah). “By the fools” has, of course, a double meaning. Jesod is the Ninth Sephirah, and its symbolism and the Ordeals of the Zelator should be considered.</p>
<p>For “eight and one in eight with the just” they shuld study the meaning of Atu VII, because Cheth is 8 by the Qabalah; of Aleph, because Aleph is 1 by the Qabalah; of Atu I and of Atu VIII.</p>
<p>Serious students should never forget that those symbols al run into each other, and that particularly in the case of “eight, and one in eight.” It should be noted that first “eight” is considered by itself; then, with “one” in it.</p>
<p>“The Empress and the King are not of me”. His name could not be written HD (HaD), as Crowley thought at the time of the dictation, because He is not the “King”, that is, the Emperor. See AL I, 57, the Second Paragraph, and A.C.‟s Commentary thereunto.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
