<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch081.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.12." class="level3">
<h3>II.12.</h3>
<p><em>Because of me in Thee which thou knewest not.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-77" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(10-11-12.) Mine Angel, Aiwass, watching me as I wrote down His words, saw with what rage I withstood His Spirit. For in my deepest conscious mind I held most firm the First Noble Truth proclaimed by Gautama Buddha “Everything is Sorrow”; and on this thought I had built up all my spirit and mind for many days. This Word of Aiwass therefore struck to the heart of my most earnest thought; and I hated the hand and the pen which wrote against my will, in service to His. For He was of force to subdue me, to make me obey Him, that His Word might be written and go forth unto men to utter the New Law.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-77" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>For the God was in him, albeit he knew it not.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-77" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The use of capitals “Me” and “Thee” emphasizes that Hadit was wholly manifested in The Beast. (On the contrary. As readers will notice, “Me” is not in capitals in the text, only “Thee”. It is not Hadit, but Aiwass, who is speaking. He is saying that he was manifested in the Higher Triad of Crowley, and that Crowley‟s Ruach — the lower “I” — was not conscious of this. Aiwass, being an Ipsissimus, is manifested in any Higher Triad; also, not being a „Black Brother‟, He knows that He can manifest himself in another‟s Higher Triad only as part of that Higher Triad‟s consciousness. The Center of any Higher Triad‟s consciousness is Its Point-of-View — Hadit. And Hadit “is alone”. There is no God where He is. This very difficult point remains obscure without Initiatic Experience, but 666 had enough even at the time of writing this Commentary to explain the situation more clearly. That He fails to do so is proof of how much his conscoious Ego — Alester Crowley — was upset still by the experience.) It is to be remembered that The Beast has agreed to follow the instructions communicated to Him (through his wife Rose) only in order to show that ‘nothing would happen if you broke all the rules.’ Poor fool! The Way of Mastery is to break all the rules – but you have to know them perfectly before you can do this; otherwise you are not in a position to transcend them.</p>
<p>Aiwaz here explains that his power over me depended upon the fact that Hadit is verily “the core of every star.” As is well known, there is a limit to the power of the hypnotist; he cannot overcome the resistance of the Unconscious of his patient. My own Unconscious was thus in alliance with Aiwaz; taken between two fires, my conscious self was paralyzed so long as the pressure lasted. It will be seen later – verses 61 to 69 – that my consciousness was ultimately invaded by the Secret Self, and surrendered unconditionally, so that, it proclaimed, loudly and gladly, from its citadel, the victory of its rightful Lord. The mystery is indeed this, that in so prosperous and joyous a city, there should still be groups of malcontents whose grumblings are occasionally audible.</p>
<p>(Such malcontents are foten not part of one’s own personality, but people who may be on the other side of the world, yet who have Karmic ties with us. This is one of the manners in which the Achievements of the Initiate benefit his fellowmen.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
