<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch087.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.18." class="level3">
<h3>II.18.</h3>
<p><em>These are dead, these fellows; they feel not. We are not for the poor and sad: the lords of the earth are our kinsfolk.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-83" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Such folk “feel not”, even though they suppose themselves to feel more keenly than those who enjoy life and death — those whom they call callous. But the truth is that since Events compose Life, and each Event is an act of Love under Will, all feelings except those of joy, conquest, triumph and rapture are not Events at all and so do not belong to Life. :The poor and sad are not of Hadit; for to know that one is He confers full wealth and complete joy: it is the title to Lordship of the Earth. All leaders of men are active, finding pleasure even in toil, hardship, and defeat: they accept every Event as proper to their chosen course of action, and conquer even when they are beaten down for the moment. They die at the crisis of the battle, with failure certain; yet they rejoice, having lived and loved and fought and done their will; those for whose cause they fought will reap at last where they have sowed.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-83" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(17-21.) This passage was again very painful to the prophet, who took it in its literal sense.</p>
<p>But “the poor and the outcast” are the petty thoughts and the qliphothic thoughts and the sad thoughts. These must be rooted out, or the ecstasy of Hadit is not in us. They are the weeds in the Garden that starve the Flower.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-83" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This idea is confirmed. Those who sorrow are not real people at all, not’stars’ – for the time being. The fact of their being ‘poor and sad’ proves them to be ‘shadows,’ who ‘pass and are done.’ The ‘lords of the earth’ are those who are doing their Will. It does not necessarily mean people with coronets and automobiles; there are plenty of such people who are the most sorrowful slaves in the world. The sole test of one’s lordship is to know what one’s true Will is, and to do it.</p>
<p>(It is rather difficult for the profane to understand that our material conditions are the direct consequence of our psychological structure, but such is in fact the case. It is useless to try to change the surroundings of the poor; unless they are “kings in disguise” — see verse 58 — they will immediately start modifying their improved surroundings to fit their inner state. If you put a pig to live in a palace, the pig will turn the palace into a pigsty. The simile is strong, but not exaggerated. Examples abound in the history of revolutions, from the French down to the Russian and beyond.</p>
<p>If you want to change a man‟s living conditions, you must educate the man, provided he is capable of being educated, he will soon change his surroundings by his own powers.</p>
<p>The oppression of tyrants is no argument against the above truth. No tyrant will ever coerce a free man. The most he can do is kill him — before he is killed, as he undoubtedly will be if he does not leave the free man — the “star” — alone.</p>
<p>“We are not for the poor and sad.” The poor and sad are not conscious of the Triad Nuit-Hadit-Hoor in their intellect. See Liber V for the meaning of “not” — LA.</p>
<p>“The lords of the earth are our kinsfolk,” Not the “Lords of the poor and sad”! These are the “Black Brothers‟. The lords of the earth are those who have control over their surroundings, over the material site of their „existence‟. That is, the true men. The others are asleep, and being asleep are merely animals walking on two legs — the “unfeathered bipeds” of Diogenes.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
