<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch085.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.16." class="level3">
<h3>II.16.</h3>
<p><em>I am The Empress &amp; the Hierophant. Thus eleven, as my bride is eleven.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-81" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(15-16.) Also, to distract and amuse my mind, to make me curious enough to be willing to proceed, He proposed a Riddle of the Nature of Hadit, so that I might know most surely beyond doubt that He was skilled in Knowledge of all secret marvels of letter and number in sacred tongues and scripts, lest I persuade myself that I myself had written this Book of my own motion. Therefore He shewed me Wisdom and Cunning beyond my wit to conceive, and marvels never yet known to any man that was of woman born. This Riddle, with its fellows, will I expound elsewhere, so that all men may know of a surety that not I, nor any man, but a Great Angel in very sooth, spake in mine ear the Words of His Book.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-81" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>I am the Empress and the Hierophant ו {Vau} III. + V. = VIII., and VIII. is XI., both because of the 11 letters in Abrahadabra ( = 418 = חיטשׁ‎ {HB:ChYTh} = ח {Cheth} = 8), the Key Word of all this ritual, and because VIII. is not Leo, Strength, but Libra, Justice, in the Tarot (see Tarot Lecture and 777).</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-81" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>See Appendix. {WEH NOTE: not available.}</p>
<p>(Please notice that “The Empress” is written with capitals. In the previous verse the sentence starts after a period, so it is natural for the The of Empress to be in the upper case. In this verse, there is no reason for The to be capitalized unless there is a hidden meaning. There is no other instance in the entire manuscript fo the definite article being capitalized unless it stars a sentence. Hadit is emphasizing that this is a “greater Empress” that he is talking about. This is of course He, the the Star, who is not the King as A.C. thought at the time. Hadit then means simply that his name can be written HV, “The Empress &amp; the Hierophant”. The value, of course, is 11.</p>
<p>It should be noted that “Hu” was the oldest name that the Egyptians ascribed to the Sphinx at Gizeh. The word means Prince.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
