<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch089.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.20." class="level3">
<h3>II.20.</h3>
<p><em>Beauty and strength, leaping laughter and delicious languor, force and fire, are of us.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-85" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Beauty and strength, the sense of the fitness of the object perceived as a symbol of the success of one’s will, and the power of that will itself; leaping laughter and delicious languor, the rapture of joyous uprush in full freedom of spirit and the delight that follows the success of one’s efforts, luring the victor to enjoy the pleasure of knowing himself worthy; force and fire, the ardour of motion, achieving one’s will, and the light and heat evolved by the love under will of the Self and its desires: these are the marks of those who know their True Self to be Hadit. (Note that all these statements are hidden in the basic complex of thought which defines Hadit.)</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-85" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(17-21.) This passage was again very painful to the prophet, who took it in its literal sense.</p>
<p>But “the poor and the outcast” are the petty thoughts and the qliphothic thoughts and the sad thoughts. These must be rooted out, or the ecstasy of Hadit is not in us. They are the weeds in the Garden that starve the Flower.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-85" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>As soon as one realizes one’s self as Hadit, one obtains all His qualities. It is all a question of doing one’s Will. A flaming harlot, with red cap and sparkling eyes, her foot on the neck of a dead king, is just as much a star as her predecessor, simpering in his arms. (Needless to say, in either case, he wants not much of a king. I would like to have seen a woman trying either maneuver with Crowley, for one! More on kings later.) But one must be a flaming harlot – one must let oneself go, whether one’s star be twin with that of Shelly, or of Blake, or of Titian, or of Beethoven. Beauty and strength come from doing one’s Will; you have only to look at any one who is doing it to recognize the glory of it.</p>
<p>(There is also, of course, a technical meaning. Beauty is Tiphereth, Strength is Jesod, Leaping Laughter is Hod, Delicious Languor is Netzach, Force is XI, Fire is XVI. The “highest” must have conquered the Lower Triad, and be well (if you will pardon the pun) on their way to conquer Geburah and Gedulah. This organization is necessary before you can know and do your True Will with even some degree of efficiency. For although Gimel brings you the Influence of Kether, the disorder of the Mind and the grossness of the Emotions hinder your attempts to interpret and reflect it. That is why most of your fellowmen are little better than wild animals — are domestic animals — dogs.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
