<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch082.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.13." class="level3">
<h3>II.13.</h3>
<p><em>for why? Because thou wast the knower, and me.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-78" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Aiwass then spake a Riddle, by quaint grammar and trick of style and form proving to me in after Years when I attained to be a Master of the Temple, that my True Will was one with His, and my fierce and bitter revolt the folly and falsehood of my conscious Will, enthralled by fear and shame and the sense of sin.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-78" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>For so long as any knower remains, there is no thing known. Knowledge is the loss of the Knower in the Known. “And me” (not “and I”), Hadit was the passive, which could not arise because of the existence of the Knower; “and” implying further the duality — which is Ignorance.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-78" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>(A.C. asked mentally “why he didn‟t know”, and Aiwass explains that A.C. was functioning only in his personality and in Aiwass’s Presence in him — “me”. Readers must not forget that Aiwass was Crowley‟s Holy Guardian Angel.)</p>
<p>Hadit had to overcome the silly ‘knower,’ (Again, error. It isn’t Hadit — it’s Aiwass. And this was a very special case. Were it not for the fact that Hadit-Aiwass and Hadit-Beast were in close harmony, Aiwass would never have interfered in A.C.‟s personality — the “scribe”. This case is analogous to cases of “rape” where there is a genuine attraction between the man and the woman, but it is masked by complexes or prejudices. Only the aftereffects of the act ill prove whether it was “moral” or not. This is the „reason‟ why Adepts often seem to act with complete callousness and lack of consideration for other people‟s feelings. Please do not confuse „Adepts‟ with „Black Brethren‟, though!) who thought everything was Sorrow. Cf. “Who am I?” — “Thou knowest” in Chapter I. (An altogether different case. A.C. was asking what Star was he, and the Goddess answered that he already knew — he was 666. Again the injured feelings of 666‟s personality cause confusion!…This is all to the good, though, since it provides us with an example of the relationship between an Adept‟s Higher Triad, His Instrument, and His Holy Guardian Angel!)</p>
<p>I am far from satisfied with either of the above interpretations of this verse. We shall see a little later, verses 27 ~sqq, a general objection to “Because” and “why.” Then how is it that Hadit does not disdain to use those terms? It must be for the sake of my mind. Then, “for why” is detestably vulgar; and no straining of grammar excuses or explains the “me.”</p>
<p>We have two alternatives. (The personality speaking!…) The verse may be an insult to me. My memory tells me, however, that the tone of the voice of Aiwaz was at this point low, even, and musical. It sounded like a confidential, almost deferential, clarification of the previous verse, which had rung out with joyful crescendo.</p>
<p>The alternative is that the verse contains some Qabalistic proof of the authority of Aiwaz to lay down the law in so autocratic a manner. Just so, one might add weight to one’s quotation from Sappho, in the English, by following it up with the original Greek.</p>
<p>The absence of all capital letters favours this theory. Such explanation, if discovered, will be given in the Appendix. {WEH NOTE: Appendix not extant}</p>
<p>However, simply enough, the solution begins with the idea that the small initial of ‘because’ would be explained by a colon preceding it instead of a note of interrogation, which may have been due to my haste, ignorance, and carelessness. Then ‘for why’ may be understood: “for the benefit of this Mr. Why – to satisfy your childish clamour for a reason – I will now repeat my remarks in an alternative form such that even your stupidity can scarcely fail to observe that I have sealed my psychological explanation in cipher.” We find accordingly that the arising “of Me in Thee” (he persists in the error) constitutes a state wherein “thou knewest not.” By “knewest” we may understand the function of Hadit, (still he persists!) intellectually and conjugally united with Nuit. (See Book 4, Part III, for GN, the root meaning both ‘to know’ and ‘to beget’). (This is better.) And ‘not’ is Nuit (But Hadit is a pains to state the He is Not! Hadit and Nuit are complementary.), as in Cap. I. Now this idea explains that the arising ‘of Me (Hadit) in Thee (The Beast)’ is the fulfilment of the Magical Formula of Hadit and Nuit. (He gets more and more entangled in his own reasoning. Clearly the writing down of this passage of Liber AL was a very humiliating experience for Aleister Crowley.) And to know Nuit is the very definition of ‘joy.’ The next verse confirms this: “thou (the Beast) wast the knower (Hadit) and (united with) me (Nuit, as in Cap.I., verse 51 &amp; others).” Finally, Nuit is indicated by two different symbols ‘not’ (Gk ΟΥ) and ‘me’ (Gk ΜΗ). Now ΟΥ ΜΗ was my Motto in the Grade of Adeptus Exemptus; Aiwaz thus subtly reminds me that I was pledged to deny the assertions of my intellectual and moral consciousness.</p>
<p>(This last simply proves that the “rape” by Aiwass of the mind of Aleister Crowley was the result of the formulated Aspriation of this mind to be raped…Otherwise, Aiass would not have done it. It can never be stated too clearly that True Initiates never interfere with the True Will of the least and weakest [senseless expression from above the Abysss, but!]…human being.)</p>
<p>He combines in these few words (a) a correct psychological explanation of the situation (he does), (b) a correct magical explanation of that explanation (ibidem), (c) a personal rebuke (not so — a reminder. He interprets it as rebuke because the Ego is still resentful) to which I had no possible reply, involving a knowledge of my own mental state which was superior to my own.</p>
<p>These two verses are sufficient in themselves to demonstrate the praeter-human qualities of the Author of this Book.</p>
<p>(On the contrary, they demonstrate that the Aughor is of our species, though one of its most highly evolved members. Obviously, He was one the the first specimens of the race to achieve consciousness. Aiwass is human — it is we who aren’t.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
