<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch095.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.26." class="level3">
<h3>II.26.</h3>
<p><em>I am the secret Serpent coiled about to spring: in my coiling there is joy. If I lift up my head, I and my Nuit are one. If I droop down mine head, and shoot forth venom, then is rapture of the earth, and I and the earth are one.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-91" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Once again, we return to Hadit. He is the Secret spring of Magick (Compare the Hindu Kundalini). He takes joy when he withdraws into himself which he does in order to prepare a new Event. These Events are of two kinds. One is the act of worship of Nuit, the other is the putting forth of his spirit into matter. We may call one the Mystic, the other the Magical Path.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-91" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The Kundalini again. The mystic Union is to be practised both with Spirit and with Matter.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-91" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The magical power is universal. The Free Man directs it as He Will. Leave Him alone, or He will make you sorry you tried to interfere!</p>
<p>There is here a reference to the two main types of the Orgia of Magick; I have already dealt with this matter in the Comment. Observe that in the “mystic” work, the union takes place spontaneously; in the other, venom is shot forth. This awakes the earth to rapture; not until then does union occur. For, in working on the planes of manifestation, the elements must be consecrated and made “God” by virtue of a definite rite.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
