<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch093.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.24." class="level3">
<h3>II.24.</h3>
<p><em>Behold! these be grave mysteries; for there are also of my friends who be hermits. Now think not to find them in the forest or on the mountain; but in beds of purple, caressed by magnificent beasts of women with large limbs, and fire and light in their eyes, and masses of flaming hair about them; there shall ye find them. Ye shall see them at rule, at victorious armies, at all the joy; and there shall be in them a joy a million times greater than this. Beware lest any force another, King against King! Love one another with burning hearts; on the low men trample in the fierce lust of your pride, in the day of your wrath.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-89" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Aiwass returns to the charge. He describes the hermits of Thelema. We must define a Hermit as one who goes alone. Observe the word “alone” with regard to Hadit, just above. But these Hermits are to be found taking their pleasure with women and in all other ways, acting like the Masters of Rome in the days of the Empire and of the Renaissance. Great kings and queens of Thebes and Babylon. We are to learn from this to enjoy all things without losing control of ourselves or ceasing to suffice for ourselves or becoming the slaves of our desire or losing our sense of selfhood. Aiwass then warns us to respect the equal kingship of others. We are to love our brother kings with eager passion and combine to trample down the “low men”, in the sense explained in the second challenge.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-89" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Hermits — see “v.” 15.</p>
<p>Our ascetics enjoy, govern, conquer, love, and are not to quarrel (but see vv. 59, 60 — Even their combats are glorious).</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-89" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The Christians to the Lions!</p>
<p>A hermit is one who dwells isolated in the desert, exactly as a soul, a star, (Not all stars, however; see Liber Aleph, 144), or an electron in the wilderness of space-time. The doctrine here put forth is that the initiate cannot be polluted by any particular environment. He accepts and enjoys everything that is proper to his nature. Thus, a man’s sexual character is one form of his self-expression; he unites Hadit with Nuit sacramentally when he satisfied his instinct of physical love. Of course, this is only one partial projection; to govern, to fight, and so on, must fulfil other needs. We must not imagine that any form of activity is ipso facto incapable of supplying the elements of an Eucharist: suum cuique. Observe, however, the constant factor in this enumeration of the practices proper to ‘hermits:’ it is ecstatic delight. Let us borrow an analogy from Chemistry. Oxygen has two hands (so to speak) to offer to other elements. But contrast the cordial clasp of hydrogen or phosphorus with the weak reluctant greeting of chlorine! Yet hydrogen and chlorine rush passionately to embrace each other in monogamic madness! There is no ‘good’ or ‘bad’ in the matter; it is the enthusiastic energy of union, as betokened by the disengagement of heat, light, electricity, or music, and the stability of the resulting compound, that sanctifies the act. Note also that the utmost external joy in any phenomenon is surpassed a millionfold by the internal joy of the realization that self-fulfilment in the sensible world is but a symbol of the universal sublimity of the formula “love under will.”</p>
<p>The last two sentences demand careful attention. There is an apparent contradiction with verses 59, 60. We must seek reconcilement in this way: Do not imagine that any King can die (v.21) or be hurt (v.59); strife between two Kings can therefore be nothing more than a friendly trial of strength. We are all inevitably allies, even identical in our variety; to “love one another with burning hearts” is one of our essential qualities.</p>
<p>But who then are the “low men,” since “Every man and every woman is a star?” The casus belli is this: there are people who are veiled from themselves so deeply that they resent the bared faces of us others. We are fighting to free them, to make them masters like ourselves. Note verse 60, “to hell with them:” that is, let us drive them to the ‘hell’ or secret sanctuary within their consciousness. There dwells “the worm that dieth not and the fire that is not quenched;’ that is, ‘the secret serpent coiled about to spring’ and ‘the flame that burns in every heart of man’ – Hadit. In other words, we take up arms against falsehood; we cannot help it if that falsehood forces the King it has imprisoned to assent to its edicts, even to believe that his interests are those of his oppressor, and to fear Truth as once Jehovah did the Serpent.</p>
<p>(The above is very romantic, of course; Kings are not „fighting to make them masters like ourselves‟; they fight—when they fight at all—to avoid interference with their kingdoms. Low men, not being aware of their True Wills, tend to invade the prerogatives of others with tiresome frequency. From „fighting to make them masters like us‟ to „fighting to save them from themselves‟ to „dying for their sins‟ the distance is minimal.</p>
<p>You cannot „make‟ a King—note the word in capitals. A King makes himself. A King is a man who „wears the crown‟, and the crown has, of course, always been the symbol of an activated Sahashara. Unless the symbol stands for reality, the man is a „king‟ but in name. No church can make a King, no parliament can make a King. The King is, first of all, King of his own soul. Next he may—or may not—be ruler over other men.</p>
<p>The entire concept of kingship has been vitiated by two thousand years of dogma. It makes even archaeologists commit egregious mistakes. For instance, it is now known that the Pyramids of Egypt were not built by “hundreds of thousands of slaves under the cruel lash of the overseer”, as the sadomasochism characteristic of the slave spirit would have us believe: they were built by select crews of workers who elected their own foremen and cheerfully competed with each other to see which crew would work faster. They were paid from the royal treasure and fed from the royal granaries. They recorded their own jokes or incidents of the working day in stone. One such inscription has been translated by scholars as meaning that “some gangs were so pleased to work for the King that, as a later foreman said, they toiled „without a single man getting exhausted, without a man thirsting‟, and at last „came home in good spirits, sated with bread, drunk with beer, as if it were the beautiful festival of a god‟”. All this, of course, from their happiness in working for the King.</p>
<p>This is absolute bullshit. What the foreman actually wrote was a record of their working conditions. “Without a single man getting exhausted” means, evidently, that their working hours were short, perhaps five or six, with frequent rest periods. “Without a single man thirsting” means, evidently, that plenty of drinking water was made available to them during their working hours. And that at last they went home in good spirits, “sated with bread and drunk with beer, as if it were the beautiful festival of a god,” means, evidently, that the King saw to it that they had plenty of food and drink for lunch or midafternoon meal before they went back to their homes at night. They wee happy to work for the King not becasuse the King was King, but because the King treated them as a decent and generous man should treat those who work for him. Their working hours were shorter, and the treatment they received better, than is common in many so-called civilized communities today. They like their King, and inscribed disrespectful jokes obut him, such as “The King is royally drunk today.” Undoubtedly they were a bit tipsy themselves.</p>
<p>Whenever the word King is used, there arises in the imagination of a „low man‟ an image of arrogant and ruthless power. He envisions a Juggernaut ready to step all over him. This is what he wants, and this is what he usually gets, but not from a King — he gets it from a wretch like himself, and were he to wear a crown he would be a sadistic tyrant, just as now he is a masochistic slave. There follow a few technical interpretations of this verse.</p>
<p>“Hermits”: This refers, of course, to the Third Grade of Thelemites, for which see Chapter One, vv. 40-41. “Now think not to find them,” etc., means that now, that is, in this Aeon,a Hermit is not to live in seclusion. The Hermits of Thelema must live I the world without being of the world. This, by the way, is in harmony with the ancient rule of the so-called “Rosicrucians”.</p>
<p>It should be axiomatic that the men most fit to govern ought to be those most hesitant to do so. A king’s crown is a crown of thorns — if he is a good man and an honest king. The Tao The King — that Handbook of Sensible Government — is at pains to make this clear.</p>
<p>One of the sheerest wastes of the past Aeon was that those men most fit to occupy responsible positions were so disgusted by the animalism and stupidity of their fellowmen that they withdrew into desert regions and spent their lives in silent meditation. Thus their civilizing influence was lost to the world. At the same time, they failed to advance much in the kingdom of the spirit, having made things too easy or themselves. The spiritual musculature, like the physical, can be developed beyond any static condition only by being pitted against increased opposition. You must exercise your faculties, and you will be wise to find ever toughter problems to solve. Thus, in this Aeon, the Path of the Hermit goes into the world, and not out of it.</p>
<p>Readers must not confuse hermits with monks, by the way. Monasteries, like nunneries, are social communities. Hermits go solitary; monks hunt in packs.</p>
<p>“Beasts of women”: this curious expression must not be interpreted as derogatory to womanhood. Every woman is a star. “Beasts of women” does not mean “bestial women” — see verse 70. There is a technical meaning, and it must be left to the “Right Ingenium” of the advanced Philosophus.</p>
<p>“Beware lest any force another” — beware of interfering with each other‟s True Will.</p>
<p>“The day of your wrath”: See Liber VII, vii, vv. 29-39.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
