<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch094.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.25." class="level3">
<h3>II.25.</h3>
<p><em>Ye are against the people, O my chosen!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-90" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Aiwass repeats this thought in even simpler, stronger, clearer words. We are against “the people”. Any unit, any true star, is kingly but the people as a multitude — even though each unit be noble — are not themselves, they are a confused mass of chance atoms. They must not be allowed to act as if they possessed a point of view. They are not stars, they have no way of their own. They are dragged helpless in the wake of any force that happens to attract them. To permit them to control events at all is to give up all design, all Will, all clear sight.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-90" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The cant of democracy condemned. It is useless to pretend that men are equal; the facts are against it. And we are not going to stay, dull and contented as oxen, in the ruck of humanity.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-90" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>By ‘the people’ is meant that canting, whining, servile breed of whipped dogs which refuses to admit its deity. The mob is always afraid for its bread and butter – when its tyrants let it have any butter – and now and then the bread has 60% substitutes of cattle-fodder. (Beast-food, even the New York Times of November 13, 1918, E.V. has it.) So, being afraid, it dare not strike. And when the trouble begins, we aristocrats of Freedom, from the castle or the cottage, the tower or the tenement, shall have the slave mob against us. The newspapers will point out to us that “the People” prefer to starve, and thank John D. Rockefeller for the permission to do so.</p>
<p>Still deeper, there is a meaning in this verse applicable to the process of personal initiation. By “the people” we may understand the many-headed and mutable mob which swarms in the slums of our own minds. Most men are almost entirely at the mercy of a mass of loud and violent emotions, without discipline or even organization. They sway with the mood of the moment. They lack purpose, foresight, and intelligence. They are moved by ignorant and irrational instincts, many of which affront the law of self-preservation itself, with suicidal stupidity. (This is the product of atavism, those instincts having been perfectly good at another time and in another environment. But to refuse to adapt oneself to new conditions is to go the way of the dinosaur. See Liber AlephLiber Aleph, 124-132.) The moral Idea which we call “the people” is the natural enemy of good government. He who is ‘chosen’ by Hadit to Kingship must consequently be ‘against the people’ if he is to pursue any consistent policy. The massed maggots of ‘love’ devoured Mark Antony as they did Abelard. For this reason the first task of the Aspirant is to disarm all his thoughts, to make himself impregnably above the influence of any one of them; this he may accomplish by the methods given in Liber AlephLiber Aleph, Liber Jugorum, Thien Tao, and elsewhere. Secondly, he must impose absolute silence upon them, as may be done by the “Yoga” practices taught in Book 4 (Part I), Liber XVI, etc. He is then ready to analyse them, to organize them, to drill them, and so to take advantage of the properties peculiar to each one by employing its energies in the service of his imperial purpose.</p>
<p>(A man’s kingdom may be as small as a family and children, or as a hock-shop; it may be as great as an industrial corporation, or an entire nation. It matters not to the mechanics of the art of self-government, which is the first step to government of others (which must — if you are a true king — always be relative to your particular positions as spiritual stars in the spiritual space of the Body of Nuit). See A.C.’s edition of the Tao The King.</p>
<p>The idea of “People”, however, by globing all individuals, no matter how diverse of nature or activity or interests, in one statistical monster with no head, is deadly misleading to freedom. You miss the tree for the forest, and you are the tree. It matters not one jot what others think or do; “every number is infinite”. Your single individual opinion on a plate of the balance weighs as much as the opinions of all other stars gathered on the other, for your orbit is “at rest”, that is, its aim is Infinity, as is theirs, which means that your orbit is a function, or resultant, of all theirs. It is this that makes it unique, therefore as important as all theirs. The “people”, therefore, if rightly understood, can never be more important than you. The plates weigh the same, for the Universe is balanced — is “at rest”. Of course, you are the “resultant” of the people, from the point-of-view of the “people”. (But there is no “point-of-view of the people”, just the points-of-view of all other stars, globally considered merely for convenience of thought.) But in the very same sense, the “people” is a resultant of you. And this perspective is sound and practical and actual, while the other is merely a philosophical abstraction. Louis XIV’s gardener ahd as much right a the king to say “L’Etat, c’est moi.” That is, if he was as good as a gardener as the king was as a king. This explains the power of revolutions, as also the universal belief in kings.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
