<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch103.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.34." class="level3">
<h3>II.34.</h3>
<p><em>But ye, o my people, rise up &amp; awake!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-99" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(34-44.) With abrupt vigour the subject swings over to the triumph of the Masters. Aiwass bids us rise up and awake. He prescribes ways of worship. We are to invoke with joy and beauty. He begins by making a list of rituals and feasts; and in the course of this he works himself up into a state of rapture so that these rites at first clearly defined in order, gather force, wave upon wave, quicker and quicker, until at last he proclaims all times and places as proper for feasts. At the end he exclaims once more that all such pleasures are free from any taint of hidden poison. We are to make the present perfect, without the least fear that we are making trouble for ourselves in the future. True, our bodies are dissolved; but this brings us into full timeless rapture. We enjoy all that may be, as we could not even at the best while forced to measure our Magick in terms of the body and mind. It may be that events cease to occur, that they become one single event, a constant state of joy.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-99" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The Awakening.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-99" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>We are not to calculate, to argue, to criticise; these things lead to division of will and to stagnation. They are shackles of our Going. They hamstring our Pegasus. We are to rise up – to Go – to Love – we are to be awake, alert –</p>
<p>“Joyous and eager, Our tresses adorning,</p>
<p>O let us beleaguer the City of Morning!”</p>
<p>The Secret of Magick is to “enflame oneself in praying.” This is the ready test of a Star, that it whirls flaming through the sky. You cannot mistake it for an Old Maid objecting to Everything. This Universe is a wild revel of atoms, men, and stars, each one a Soul of Light and Mirth, horsed on Eternity.</p>
<p>Observe that we must ‘rise up’ befor we ‘awake!’ Aspiration to the Higher is a dream – a wish-fulfilment which remains a phantasm to wheedle us away from seeking reality – unless we follow it up by Action. Only then do we become fully aware of ourselves, and enter into right reaction with the world in which we live.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
