<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch117.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.48." class="level3">
<h3>II.48.</h3>
<p><em>Pity not the fallen! I never knew them. I am not for them. I console not: I hate the consoled &amp; the consoler.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-113" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>We now return to those who are not Hadit. We are not to pity the fallen. The first fact about a ‘point-of-view’ is that it keeps its place. It goes, true, but never can fall. To fall is to yield to a strain outside oneself; and that is to cease to maintain the “point-of-view” which is of the essence of Hadit. Hadit never knew the fallen. A real point-of-view cannot be shaken. Should we console such wretches? Useless. He is no better for one extra lie; and who tells that lie is false to his own Godhead.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-113" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Hadit has never defiled His purity with the Illusions of Sorrow, etc. Even love and pity for the fallen is an identification with it (sympathy, from συν παθειν), and therefore a contamination.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-113" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It is several times shewn in this Book that ‘falling’ is in truth impossible. “All is ever as it was”. To sympathize with the illusion is not only absurd, but tends to perpetuate the false idea. It is a mistake to ‘spoil’ a child, or humour a malade imaginaire. One must, on the contrary, chase away the shadows by lighting a fire, which fire is: Do what thou wilt!</p>
<p>(Some technical aspects of this verse should be mentioned. “Hadit never knew them” — Hadit was never manifested in their Ruach — to them he exists only as “Not”. The consciousness of Hadit is only possible to those whose Ajna has become active, even if for just one moment. “Hadit consoles not” — Hadit, of course, is the abiding Flame of Life that makes manifestation, even of the “fallen”, possible. Though they are not conscious of Him, He is in them. See Liber LXV, ii, 36. But for the same reason, He “hates” those who console and those who let themselves be consoled. To fear death is to blaspheme against Life, and your own Spiritual Intuition — Gimel in the Qabalah — turns against you in scorn. It is for this reason that beggars hate the alms giver, and the alms giver, deep in his heart, despises the beggar. This is a psychological fact, no matter how much well-intentioned fools may deny or conceal it. Curses brace your Soul — benedictions put you to sleep. Does your brother beg your help? Cast him into the shake pit and laugh at his fear. He has nothing to fear but his fear. If he hate you, he would have hated you anyway. But he would have hated and despised, and now he will hate and respect. And from respect for one‟s neighbour to respect for one‟s own self it is a small step. A man who can stand against you is a man you can lean upon, as said William Gibson, and the author of the Bhagavad Gita before him.</p>
<p>It is not with these few well-chosen words that I look for praise form the United Givers Fund, the Salvation Army, and such other illustrious institutions.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
