<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch113.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.44." class="level3">
<h3>II.44.</h3>
<p><em>Aye! feast! rejoice! there is no dread hereafter. There is the dissolution, and eternal ecstasy in the kisses of Nu.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-109" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(34-44.) With abrupt vigour the subject swings over to the triumph of the Masters. Aiwass bids us rise up and awake. He prescribes ways of worship. We are to invoke with joy and beauty. He begins by making a list of rituals and feasts; and in the course of this he works himself up into a state of rapture so that these rites at first clearly defined in order, gather force, wave upon wave, quicker and quicker, until at last he proclaims all times and places as proper for feasts. At the end he exclaims once more that all such pleasures are free from any taint of hidden poison. We are to make the present perfect, without the least fear that we are making trouble for ourselves in the future. True, our bodies are dissolved; but this brings us into full timeless rapture. We enjoy all that may be, as we could not even at the best while forced to measure our Magick in terms of the body and mind. It may be that events cease to occur, that they become one single event, a constant state of joy.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-109" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Without fear rejoice; death is only a dissolution, a uniting of Hadit with Nu, the Ego with the All, י with א {Yod with Aleph}. (Note י {Yod} 10 + א {Aleph}. 1 = 11, Abrahadabra, the Word of Uniting the 5 and the 6.)</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-109" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Do not be afraid of ‘going the pace’. It is better to wear out than to rust out.</p>
<p>(One of the great tragedies of modern life is the idea of “retirement”. People stop working precisely at the age when they have gathered enough experience to work efficiently. The idea that work is an obligation and an effort is possible only in a slave society, where men and women work not at what they like, but at what they may. A person who is doing work harmonious with his or her True Will wants to work until he or she dies — because to work is fun. Hard fun, maybe — but great fun. An occasional rest is of course necessary; but if your work is congenial, you will soon find yourself missing it — and back to it you should go, whether you are twenty or eighty, whether to compose a symphony or wield a spade. It does not matter if you do it slower — your experience will make each move count, and even if it didn‟t, you are not a ward of society. On the contrary, society is a ward of you.)</p>
<p>You are unconquerable, and of indefatigable energy. Great men find time for everything, shirk nothing, make reputations in half a dozen different lines, have twenty simultaneous love affairs, and live to a green old age. The milksops and valetudinarians never get anywhere; usually they die early; and even if they lived for ever, what’s the use?</p>
<p>The body is itself a restriction as well as an instrument. When death is as complete as it should be, the individual expands and fulfils himself in all directions; it is an omniform Samadhi. This is of course ‘eternal ecstasy’ in the sense already explained. But in the time-world Karma reconcentrates the elements, and a new incarnation occurs.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
