<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch125.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.56." class="level3">
<h3>II.56.</h3>
<p><em>Begone! ye mockers; even though ye laugh in my honour ye shall laugh not long: then when ye are sad know that I have forsaken you.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-121" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>Another sudden change. He pours scorn on those who mock this work</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-121" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The God again identifies himself with essential ecstasy. He wants no reverence, but identity.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-121" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>These passages are certainly very difficult. It seems as if they were given to meet some contingency which has not yet arisen. For example this verse might be appropriate in case of the institution of a false cultus by impostors.</p>
<p>The doctrine is that Hadit is the nucleolus (to borrow a term from bilogy) of any star-organism. To mock at Hadit is therefore evidently very much what is meant by the mysterious phrase in the “New Testament” with regard to the Unpardonable Sin, the “blasphemy against the Holy Ghost”. A star forsaken by Hadit would thus be in the condition of real death it is this state which is characteristic of the “Black Brothers”, as they are described in other parts of this Comment, and elsewhere in the Holy Books of the A∴ A∴</p>
<p>(It is not necessarily Hadit who is speaking: it may be Aiwass, the Magus of the Past Aeon. In which case the verse becomes perfectly clear. Aleister Crowley was mocked and is still mocked, twenty years after his death; his pretensions to Lordship of the Aeon are held laughable, his “followers” are held in scorn. Yet, what has been the history of the established churches and “occult” orders since He came? They run around in circles at this moment, trying to grasp reality, and fail at every turn. Their shrines are truly empty; the God has left them. They spat at the sun, and their spittle fell back upon their faces.)</p>
<p>I may here quote Liber AlephLiber Aleph,</p>
<p>De Inferno Servorum and De Fratribut Nigris.</p>
<p>“Now, o my Son, having understood the Heaven that is within thee, according to thy Will, learn this concerning the Hell of the Slaves of the Slavegods, that it is true Place of torment. For they, restricting themselves, and being divided in Will, are indeed the Servants of Sin, and they suffer, because, not being united in Love with the whole Universe, they perceive not Beauty, but Ugliness and Deformity; and, not being united in Understanding thereof, conceive only of Darkness and Confusion, beholding Evil therein. Thus at last they come, as did the Manichaeans, to find, to their Terror, a Division even in the One, not that Division which we know for the Craft of Love, but a Division of Hate, And this, multiplying itself, Conflict upon Conflict, endeth in Hotchpot, and in the Impotence and Envy of Choronzon, and in the Abominations of the Abyss. And of such the Lords are the Black Brothers, who seek by their Sorceries to confirm themselves in Division. Yet in this even is no true Evil, for Love conquereth All, and their Corruption and Disintegration is also the Victory of BABALON”.</p>
<p>“O my Son, know this concerning the Black Brothers, that cry: I am I. This is Falsity and Delusion, for the Law endureth not Exception. So then these Brethren are not Apart, as they Think; but are peculiar Combinations of Nature in Her Variety. Rejoice then even in the Contemplation of these, for they are proper to Perfection, and Adornments of Beauty, like a Mole upon the Cheek of a Woman. Shall I then say that were it of thine own Nature, even thine, to compose so sinsister a complex, thou shouldst not strive therewith, destroying it by Love, but continue in that Way? I deny not this hastily, nor affirm; for it is in mine won Nature to think that in this Matter the Sum of Wisdom is Silence. But this I say, and that boldly, that thou shalt not look upon this Horror with Fear, or with Hate, but accept this as thou dost all else, as a Phenomenon of Change, that is, of Love. For in a swift Stream thou mayst behold a Twig held steady for awhile by the Play of the Water, and by this Analogue thou mayst understand the Nature of this Mystery of the Path of Perfection.”</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
