<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch128.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.59." class="level3">
<h3>II.59.</h3>
<p><em>Beware therefore! Love all, lest perchance is a King concealed! Say you so? Fool! If he be a King, thou canst not hurt him.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-124" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(59-60.) Must I therefore be careful how I strike out, lest, thinking to slay a knave, I kill one of my peers? There is no danger of this. One of the tests of kingship is that he should be able to defend himself against the world. I am therefore bidden to strike hard with all my might, and strike to kill.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-124" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Yet, being indeed invulnerable, one need not fear for them.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-124" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>We must abolish the shadows by the Radiant Light of the Sun. Real things are only thrown into brighter glory by His ~effulgence. We need have no fear then to throw the Christians to the Lions. If there be indeed True Men among them, who happen through defect of education to know no better, they will reincarnate all right, and no harm done.</p>
<p>This passage may perhaps be interpreted in a sense slightly different from that assumed in the above paragraph. We should indeed love all – is not the Law “love under will”? By this I mean that we should make proper contact with all, for love means union; and the proper condition of union is determined by will. Consider the right attitude to adopt in the matter of cholera. One should love it, that is, study it intimately; not otherwise can one be sure of maintaining the right relation with it, which is, not to allow it to interfere with one’s will to live. (And almost everything that is true of Cholera is true of Christians.)</p>
<p>(Readers will have nticed that Liber AL does not order them to “Love your neighbor as yourself”. This “Commandment” was unctuously proclaimed by some silly Rabbi in Palestine, and picked up eagerly by slaves — who want very muh to be loved, since they fear that, ujnless they are loved, they will be eaten up by free men. Slaves do not realize that free men, as a fule, are fastidious about their diet, and dont‟ feed on carion. It is only “Black Brothers” who delight on it. De gustibus non est disputatndum.</p>
<p>Liber AL makes a very careful distincition about hwom you should and whom you should not consider loveworthy. See I, 10-12, 21, 31, 40-49, 51-52, 57 61-62; II, 17-25.</p>
<p>Most people, alas, must be treated by you as if they had the cholera. See Liber VII, ii, 27-33.</p>
<p>There is an aristocracy of the spirit, and those who belong to it instinctively recognize each other. When they err, it is usually on the side of the angels, so to speak. Being noble, they tend to see nobility everywhere. They are few, and yearn for their peers. They give beggars the benefit of the doubt. “Compassion is the vice of kings.”</p>
<p>This tendency must be strictly avoided. The only efficient way to deal with mankind at large is to treat every man or woman you meet as a potential beggar asking for alms — which means, in this technical sense, a “Bloody Sacrifice”. Those who aren‟t beggars will quickly make the fact known, if they will. The important point is that you should not come to harm through your own folly of believing that lie: That Thou Must Die for them. On the contrary, Thou must live. Let them die in their misery!</p>
<p>The social aspect of this verse has been sensed by a woman writer, Ayn Rand, and developed in two works of fiction worthy of perusal by Thelemites: The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged. Although her reasoning is often mixed-up or naive, she grasped the main point well enough.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
