<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch122.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.53." class="level3">
<h3>II.53.</h3>
<p><em>Fear not, o prophet, when these words are said, thou shalt not be sorry. Thou art emphatically my chosen; and blessed are the eyes that thou shalt look upon with gladness. But I will hide thee in a mask of sorrow: they that see thee shall fear thou art fallen: but I lift thee up.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-118" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>No wonder if I trembled as I wrote these words. Aiwass makes haste to comfort me. He tells me that at the end of the journey stands the Inn of Joy. I was foolish enough in these days to balk at what seemed strange or hateful before always complete in my mind, and I had come to perceive the inmost meaning. Mine Angel went beyond this simple fear-not. He insists that I am ‘chosen’ and grants me my heart’s highest wish, assures me that my will shall be fulfilled, that those on whom I look with gladness shall receive all blessing; they shall behold all things in wisdom, joy and beauty. That I might have this power to free mankind, to heal their hurts, to open their eyes to beauty and their ears to music, I had renounced my own career, given myself without reserve to the Great Work, staked life and reason again and again in daring all those deeds which even the most dauntless men dread most — and shrink away.</p>
<p>Yet, for the secret purpose of the Gods, it might not be that I should come into my kingdom at once in the sight of all men. Their design required that I should be hidden in a mask of sorrow. Note the word “mask” not “veil.” There is no falsehood in the matter, only a comedy that must be staged. It was therefore arranged that those who knew me should think me fallen. Indeed, so life-like was the mask that I myself, looking upon the mirror, might have been tempted to fear that I had fallen. He, aware of my weakness assured me on the spot: “but I life thee up.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-118" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>But the prophet again disliked the writing. The God comforted him.</p>
<p>Also he prophesied of his immediate future, which was fulfilled, and is still being fulfilled at the time (An V., Sun in 20 Degree Cancer) of this writing. Even more marked now (An VII., Sun in Libra), especially these words, “I lift thee up.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-118" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Yes! I was frightened when the God of Things as They Ought to Be told me that They Were to Be. I was born under a German Queen, and I did not believe in the Revolution that I willed. And lo! it is upon us, ere the Fifteenth Year of the New Aeon has dawned.</p>
<p>Yes! I am lifted up, the Sun being in Scorpio in this Fourteenth Year of the Aeon.</p>
<p>(Students are referred to Liber LXV, I, 12-24 and the Commentaries thereon. Also to Liber VII, I, 14, 22,-28, 52-55; ii, 11-12, 17-22; iii, 16, 21, 40-44, 56-60; iv, 22-25, 48; v, 7, 34-48; vi, 22-25, 47-50; vii, 4-6, 18-20, 28-33, 36-39, 43-44.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
