<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch123.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.54." class="level3">
<h3>II.54.</h3>
<p><em>Nor shall they who cry aloud their folly that thou meanest nought avail; thou shall reveal it: thou availest: they are the slaves of because: They are not of me. The stops as thou wilt; the letters? change them not in style or value!</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-119" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>My spirit was heavy, also, because of those who mocked my speech, and swore that it was empty of sense. Aiwass assured me that their folly should not avail, that I should succeed in my Work of showing forth truth, that I should avail. My critics are hag-ridden by reason; they are not themselves. They are the slaves of their mental machines. This question of my meaning refers first of all to this Book; for Aiwass goes on straight away to repeat his warning not to change the letters of the text. I was allowed to insert stops as I might choose.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-119" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The triumph over the rationalists predicted.</p>
<p>The punctuation of this book was done after its writing; at the time it was mere hurried scribble from dictation.</p>
<p>See the MS. facsimile.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-119" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The second part of the text was in answer to an unspoken query as to the peculiar phrasing.</p>
<p>The first part is clear enough. There are a number of people of shallow wit who do not believe in Magick. This is doubtless partly due to the bad presentation of the subject by previous Masters. I have identified Magick with the Art of Life. The transcendental superstructure will not overburden those who have laid this Right Foundation.</p>
<p>There is an elaborate cryptographic meaning in this verse; the words ‘folly’, ‘nought’, ‘it’, and ‘me’ indicate the path of research.</p>
<p>(The meaning should be clear from our previous notes.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
