<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch121.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.52." class="level3">
<h3>II.52.</h3>
<p><em>There is a veil: that veil is black. It is the veil of the modest woman; it is the veil of sorrow, &amp; the pall of death: this is none of me. Tear down that lying spectre of the centuries: veil not your vices in virtuous words: these vices are my service; ye do well, &amp; I will reward you here and hereafter.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-117" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>From light we turn to the absence of light. Yet this is not real. It is a veil. This veil is not in the order of nature. It has been made by shame and fear, by trying to shut off all that is true and real from the soul. To resist change and to defy nature, this is the key of the evil Magic of the Black Brotherhood, whose idol is the modest woman. Her veil is sorrow and death. We of Thelema worship Nuit: “all that may be” adored by “all that is.” Her forms are without number; and in each she bestows herself freely upon any and every soul that desires Her. Thus Her priestess on earth is the Scarlet Woman, the Whore of the Beast who gives all she can to all that will. Her every act invokes change which is life. On the other hand, the “modest woman” conceals herself and denies herself. She is afraid and ashamed of herself — afraid and ashamed of all men. She dreams that something may happen to her, and thus lies stiff and stark in death even at the height of her youth. This verse of the Book of the Law is the final challenge to the past. The Angel strikes his spear with the sharp end upon the craven shield of the coward and slave who lurks behind the mask of a Master, of a phantom, a scarecrow, set up by him to frighten the winged songsters of freedom from the fertile fields which are their own by right. Until this verse, it might perhaps have been within the power of some subtle sophist to explain away the verses of this book. Here Aiwass leaves no shadow of doubt. He says with utmost clearness “Tear down that lying spectre of the centuries: veil not your vices in virtuous words: these vices are my service; ye do well, &amp; I will reward you here and hereafter.”</p>
<p>The Angel does not even deign to show that what pious people call vices are in fact virtues: that is, tokens of manhood; or that vices means “flaws.” He uses these two words in their vulgar sense. To dare the world to a duel to the death. He does not merely tempt mankind to do what Christians call evil, he says that these vices are of the priesthood of Hadit, means to invoke Him, ways of coming to truth, ladders to climb to Godhead. We shall not be punished for doing wrong, as they call it. Both here and hereafter our reward is sure.</p>
<p>Yet more. The veil is vile. We must not, as the master class of men do now, enjoy ourselves in every way, and pretend with utmost care that we do nothing of the sort. We must take pride in our pleasure. We must be shameless and frank. Since all that is, is God, the only error is to hinder God from being himself or doing his will, or unveiling his truth.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-117" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Set above a black Veil.</p>
<p>This verse is very difficult for anyone, either with or without morality. For what men nowadays call “Vice” is really virtue — virtus, manliness — and “Virtue” — cowardice, hypocrisy, prudery, chastity, and so on are really vices — vitia, flaws.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-117" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Mohammed struck at the root of the insane superstition of tabu with his word: “Women are your field; go in unto them as ye will”. He only struck half the blow. I say: go in unto them as ye will and they will. Two-thirds of modern misery springs from Woman’s sexual dissatisfaction. (Readers will please note that this was written in the early Twenties, almost forty years before the Kinsey Report on women tore down the veil of male hypocrisy in American society!) A dissatisfied woman is a curse to herself and to everybody in her neighbourhood. Women must learn to let themselves enjoy without fear or shame, and both men and woman must be trained in the technique of sex. Sex-repression leads to neurosis, and is the cause of social unrest. Ignorance of sexual technique leads to disappointment, even where passion is free and unrestrained. Sex is not everything in life, any more than food is: but until people have got satisfaction of these natural hungers, it is useless to expect them to think of other things. This truth is vital to the statesman, now that women have some direct political power; they will certainly overthrow the Republic unless they obtain full sexual satisfaction. Also, women outnumber men; and one man cannot satisfy a woman unless he be skilful and diligent. The New Aeon will have a foundation of Happy Women: A Woman under Tabu is loathsome to Life, detested by her fellows, and wretched in herself.</p>
<p>The student should study in Liber AlephLiber Aleph and Liber 418, the connection between ‘modesty’ and the attitude of the “Black Brothers”.</p>
<p>(The „Black Brothers‟ hate and fear Woman. They have a partial and vision of Her, and refuse to see Her in Her True Nature. This is a consequence of that mental attitude psychoanalysts call the Oedipus Complex, but which they study and interpret, of course, on a very limited plane.</p>
<p>The mechanism of the complex is very simple. The first woman to whose magnetism a boy is subjected is, as a rule, his mother. She is his first love, and also his first hatred, for it is she who watches him and punishes him when he wants to do something “wrong” — that is, when he wants to express his Self in a way that offends her prejudices. The artificial restraints that modern, antinatural living imposes, the atavic influence of the slave-gods, the sexual dissatisfaction of the great majority of women in restricted societies, all this contributes to little patience in mothers with their children. The offspring is often punished for deeds that in reality deserve reward, since they demonstrate courage, initiative and high spirits.</p>
<p>The child takes on this mixture of affection and resentment for the mother, and when the sexual instinct begins to surface — it surfaces much earlier than the prudish like to believe — the mother is the son‟s first sexual fixation. Now the factor of the incest taboo comes in. The natural tendency of an adolescent boy is towards a girl of his age; but in restricted societies, on reaching puberty he is separated from girls and associates easily only with his mother. The natural physical attraction, which takes no account of taboos, naturally impels him to the sexual object of the other sex which is available. But the atavic and “educational” inhibitions become active, and increase animosity towards the mother without satisfying the attraction he feels. (In point of fact, there is no a priori physiological objection to incest. Sexual relations between relatives do not automatically produce “monsters”. They simply tend to increment common traits. If these traits are “good”, the product will be “better” than both. If these traits are “bad”, the product will be “worse”. Animal breeders frequently couple sons with mothers, fathers with daughters, and brothers with sisters, in order to improve advantageous genetic traits in a breed.</p>
<p>The only valid objection to incest is psychological: there is a possibility that a boy weak in virility will become a slave to the Oedipus complex the rest of his life. But in such cases, the same risk would occur with any woman. And if the boy is healthy, the physical relationship may in many cases dissolve the complex, satisfying the attraction, canceling the animosity, equilibrating the tension, after which naturally the boy will interest himself in other partners — and so will the mother!…)</p>
<p>The animic structure of a person who has any tendency to become a “Black Brother‟ generally shows some serious weakness combined with an excess in some other direction. Every man and every womabnis, and shoud be, the center of the Universe to himself or herself. This is given by the Consciousness of the Self. But every man and every woman animically well-balanced understands that every other human being has exactly the same right to consider himself or herself the center. If we are healthy, we understand that, although for us our neighbour is but part of our Universe, for him we are but part of his. Students are referred to Liber NV, vv. 9-11, for a better understanding of the ethical aspect of this realization. If two human beings have this perception, the relation between them will eventually become harmonious. Any friction will be accidental and ephemeral. “As brothers fight ye!” There is no possibility of permanent friction, because each of them is occupied with the realization of his True Will, and since each of us is (no matter how many points in common we may have) in a diverse position in some fundamental point, two True Wills CANNOT be in permanent conflict! Friction — if there is friction — is solved by “love under will” — which may, of course, include a fight. Any change is a form of Love. But e moment adjustment is produced, there will cease to exploitation on either side, since both understand that compensated exchange is necessary to the freedom of both. And the understanding that both have of themselves and of the Universe will have been enriched by the conflict. Both will have been modified by Love.</p>
<p>The Black Brother has only half of this perception. He understand that he is the center of his universe; but he does not understand that he is only part of the universe of his neighbour. What is more, he does not will to understand. Students will please note that this attitude is not incompatible with shows of “kindness” or “pity”. The worst Black Brothers are “kind” and “compassive”. We say “worst” from the point of view of their slaves; “a chain of flowers is more dangerous than a chain of iron.”</p>
<p>You can never tell beforehand if this or that person will become a “Black Brother”, and how long he or she will remain so. There is a factor infinite and unknown. What is necessary is that you understand that “every man and every woman is a star”. It is because they interpret this as a diminution of the importance of their own selves. They are horrified by Binah, which they sense as a hostile influence. Binah wants to destroy them. Binah is Darkness, Blindness, Annihilation, Death!</p>
<p>Readers will perhaps understand this better through an analogy. Remember occasions when you were very sick, hypersensitive, or near a nervous breakdown, when a loud noise, a sudden light, or a visitor wishing to make small talk irritated you or made you afraid. Physical health is extremely important to the initiatic process, for the mind is subjected to enormous strains in trances or magickal operations. If the body is not health, the mind may become unbalanced, and this in planes so subtle that they escape completely to perception by vulgar psychiatry. There are completely “normal” people on the intellectual and emotional planes who are nevertheless “morally” insane. And people whose development on the “moral” plane — BuddhiManas — Neshamah — is rudimentary, that is, the great majority of mankind, are like clay in the hands of such madmen or madwomen.</p>
<p>It is necessary also that Students should understand what is the true position o the “Black Brother”, from the point of view of the Supernals. The “Black Brother”, becomes an evil force in the world. But “evil” is relative. The “Black Brother” would have no power over his fellowmen if his fellowmen had already reached that degree of self-awareness that makes us repel form us any enslaving influence. Our fellowmen, in tier majority, have not reached such a level of inner freedom. Consequently, they knuckle under the influence of the “Black Brethren”—and through the harm this infuence does them, they slowly purify and equilibrate the sheaths of the self, start aspiring to emancipation, and eventually become capable of facing the Horror, the Abomination of Desolation—their own Selves.</p>
<p>Thus, from the point of view of the Supernals, although the “Black Brother” becomes a demon, this demon bows its head to CHORONZON — 333 — and becomes a blind instrument of Destiny. His activity helps the work of the masters of the Temple. He is forced to work for Mankind in spite of himself. “Choronzon” is that influence the destroys the ego — which is precisely what the Aspirant to True Initiation desires. Students are advised to read Liber 156 with extreme care, and to consult Liber 418, the tenth Aethyr, which describes the circumstances in which Choronzon manifests itself, and the attitude that forces Choronzon to obey.</p>
<p>BABALON is the Woman as THERION is the Man. We are all man and woman insides ourselves. The concept of Woman as an entity that shuts itself is the product of the fear that the “Black Brothers” have of the universe. Who bows to the taboo of incest, or who fears love, tends to visualize the “Mother” as “Pure,” “Virgin,” “Untouchable,” “Untouched.” This concept is partial and erroneous. There are two ways in which a substance may be kept in a “pure” condition. First, it may be enclosed, shut up, in such a manner that it will be unable to mix with others. Second, it may be a substance so strong, so indestructible, that it cannot be contaminated by any other. A diamond may fall into mud; it will go on being a diamond. Gold does not rust nor is easily attacked by acids as other metals. It is for this that both diamond and gold have been chosen by Adepts of past ages as symbols of Our True Inner Identity — Ourselves — HADIT.</p>
<p>Two points of view, you understand. One is partial, limited, and leads the “Black Brother” to shut himself up and interpret every extraneous influence as an attack against his integrity. The other leads the Adept Exempt to open himself to the world, and to swear to interpret every phenomenon as a particular dealing between God and his soul.</p>
<p>Let it be understood that the Immaculate Virgin is a necessary concept; but it must be equilibrated by the opposite concept, since no idea that is not thus balanced by its opposite can exist above the Abyss. See Liber XXV, and Liber V, and Liber XXXVI. BABALON in Greek is MAPIE, Maria. She is the Immaculate Virgin, the Woman Clothed with the Sun — Maia with the Solar “R” in her womb. But she is SIMULTANEOUSLY the Great Whore, the Shameless One who gets drunk on the blood of the saints. She is Nature, whose is eternally inviolate, the Veiled Isis; and she is the Diana of the Ephesians, frenetically copulating with, and giving suck to, all her creatures: Isis Unveiled, the Heavenly and Earthly Venus. Beyond them, uniting their aspects in a single Female Symbol, Is Isis Urania — NUIT.</p>
<p>The concept of “Mary inviolate” is thus partial and unbalanced — and for this motive is qliphotic, unless it be checked by its opposite. The Greeks sensed this. Artemis was the Virgin Goddess, patroness of maidens. She had never submitted to the embrace of any god but Pan — and one of the great riddles of Eleusis was that Atremis, having surrendered herself to PAN — that is, to ALL — remained pure and virgin.</p>
<p>This is also what was meant by that aphorism: “Who wishes to keep his life, shall lose it. Who loses it, shall gain eternal life.”</p>
<p>Every woman of false chastity is subject to the influence of the “Black Brethren”, as are those homosexuals of the type that tries to resemble a woman. Such people deny expression to the opposite polarity of their nature. What attracts a man to a woman is, odd as this may seem to the profane, his own femininity, as what attracts a woman to a man is her own masculinity. The polarity of the vehicles is inverted. This subject is too complex for treatment here, but remember the Mark of Set, the Mark of Satan, the Mark of the Beast: Moon and Sun conjoined.</p>
<p>“Tear down that lying spectre of the centuries.” It is most necessary that false modesty be eradicated from the animic life of our race. The only way to do this is to balance it by its opposite. A nun, be it Roman Catholic, Buddhist, or of any other cult, is not a chaste woman if she automatically abstains from sexual intercourse. She is a coward, and her influence in society is always an evil influence. What use if Sisters of Charity — the least useless of such women — fight disease in the world, when the greater part of such disease is provoked precisely by the ill effect their “vows” produce in the animic life of society? It is as if a man damned a flowing brook, then kept busily disinfecting the stagnant pools resulting from the obstruction. This kind of psychic blindness is characteristic of the mental state of the “Black Brothers.”</p>
<p>It is a wicked and senseless folly to believe that God can be found only out of, and beyond, our neighbor‟s flesh. It is fatally false to form an astral image of our Guardian Angel, instead of to perceive that He is equally manifested in all things. See Liber LXV, iii, 25-39.</p>
<p>Aspirants should keep in mind that the concept of “Mary inviolate” is a telepathic projection of the inner state of the “Black Brothers”. Thelemites must fight to the utmost atavic tendencies in themselves to consider a “chaste” woman a virtuous woman. A virtuous woman is she who has the courage to meet life on all planes, who has the courage to be mistress and mother. A woman who shuts herself up, who castrates herself psychically, deserves only that scorn that we must reserve for all cowards. As long as “nuns‟ and “chaste” women are treated with more social consideration the “adulteresses” and “promiscuous” girls, the sex-life of mankind will remain stunted, and the factors that most contribute to the formation of enslaving traumas will continue to manifest in the psychic atmosphere of the race. The concept of woman as thing that “shuts itself up” comes form inside the “Black Brethren” — who really have shut themselves up. Their souls shut upon themselves, refuse to become open to the influence of their fellowmen, to the influence of the Whole, Pan.</p>
<p>Any form of sexual intercourse is permissible. Any occasional voluntary abstention is understandable. But the laying down of rules of sexual behavior, or abstention of a healthy attraction due to prejudices of race, caste, or religion, are an abomination against Beauty and Love, BABALON and THERION, Woman and Man, Love is the law, love under will.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
