<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch135.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.66." class="level3">
<h3>II.66.</h3>
<p><em>Write, &amp; find ecstasy in writing! Work, &amp; be our bed in working! Thrill with the joy of life &amp; death! Ah! thy death shall be lovely: whososeeth it shall be glad. Thy death shall be the seal of the promise of our age long love. Come! lift up thine heart &amp; rejoice! We are one; we are none.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-131" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(61-68.) The scent of battle in my nostrils avails at least to awake my manhood, to arouse my Godhead within me. Throughout this chapter I had rebelled again and again against my Master; but now the darkness broke and fled. My True Self flamed up in me. I become one with Hadit; I entered into trance at once. A sudden light blazed in my eyes. Hadit arose within my heart; and on the instant I was thrilled with the love of Nuit. She came to me more swiftly than the light itself. My body was smitten by the kisses of the stars. When I breathed in, my flesh fell from me like rotten rags. I breathed out and felt a kiss swifter, more laughterful than death itself. Utter relief from all the deceits with which my brain had been blinded. I need not enter into detail of this trance. The text describes the facts better in every way than could be done in any other manner.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-131" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(65-66.) The division of consciousness having re-arisen, and been asserted the God continues, and prophesies — of that which I cannot comment.</p>
<p>The ecstasy rekindles,</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-131" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The first part of this text appears to be a digression in the nature of a prophecy. The word “Come!” is a summons to reenter the full Trance. Its essence is declared in the last six words. Notice that the transition from one to none in instantaneous.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
