<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch133.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.64." class="level3">
<h3>II.64.</h3>
<p><em>Oh! thou art overcome: we are upon thee; our delight is all over thee: hail! hail: prophet of Nu! prophet of Had! prophet of Ra-Hoor-Khu! Now rejoice! now come in our splendour &amp; rapture! Come in our passionate peace, &amp; write sweet words for the Kings.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-129" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(61-68.) The scent of battle in my nostrils avails at least to awake my manhood, to arouse my Godhead within me. Throughout this chapter I had rebelled again and again against my Master; but now the darkness broke and fled. My True Self flamed up in me. I become one with Hadit; I entered into trance at once. A sudden light blazed in my eyes. Hadit arose within my heart; and on the instant I was thrilled with the love of Nuit. She came to me more swiftly than the light itself. My body was smitten by the kisses of the stars. When I breathed in, my flesh fell from me like rotten rags. I breathed out and felt a kiss swifter, more laughterful than death itself. Utter relief from all the deceits with which my brain had been blinded. I need not enter into detail of this trance. The text describes the facts better in every way than could be done in any other manner.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-129" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The prophet is now completely swallowed up in the ecstasy. Then he is hailed by the Gods, and bidden to write on.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-129" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>“The Kings” are evidently those men who are capable of understanding Themselves. This is a consecration of The Beast to the task of putting forth the Law.</p>
<p>“Thou art overcome”. The conscious resisted desperately, and died in the last ditch.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
