<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch134.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.65." class="level3">
<h3>II.65.</h3>
<p><em>I am the Master: thou art the Holy Chosen One.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-130" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(61-68.) The scent of battle in my nostrils avails at least to awake my manhood, to arouse my Godhead within me. Throughout this chapter I had rebelled again and again against my Master; but now the darkness broke and fled. My True Self flamed up in me. I become one with Hadit; I entered into trance at once. A sudden light blazed in my eyes. Hadit arose within my heart; and on the instant I was thrilled with the love of Nuit. She came to me more swiftly than the light itself. My body was smitten by the kisses of the stars. When I breathed in, my flesh fell from me like rotten rags. I breathed out and felt a kiss swifter, more laughterful than death itself. Utter relief from all the deceits with which my brain had been blinded. I need not enter into detail of this trance. The text describes the facts better in every way than could be done in any other manner.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-130" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(65-66.) The division of consciousness having re-arisen, and been asserted the God continues, and prophesies — of that which I cannot comment.</p>
<p>The ecstasy rekindles,</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-130" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It is curious that this verse should be numbered 65, suggesting L.V.X. and Adonai, the Holy Guardian Angel. It seems then that He is Hadit. (The Angel is Nuit, Hadit, and Ra-Hoor-Khuit. Also everything else — Nuit, again. See Liber LXV, ii, 31-33. Here it is Aiwass speaking.) I have never liked the term ‘Higher Self’; True Self is more the idea. For each Star is the husk of Hadit, unique and conqueror, sublime in His own virtue, independent of Hierarchy. There is an external hierarchy, of course, but that is only a matter of convenience.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
