<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch132.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.63." class="level3">
<h3>II.63.</h3>
<p><em>Thou art exhaust in the voluptuous fullness of the inspiration; the expiration is sweeter than death, more rapid and laughterful than a caress of Hell’s own worm.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-128" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(61-68.) The scent of battle in my nostrils avails at least to awake my manhood, to arouse my Godhead within me. Throughout this chapter I had rebelled again and again against my Master; but now the darkness broke and fled. My True Self flamed up in me. I become one with Hadit; I entered into trance at once. A sudden light blazed in my eyes. Hadit arose within my heart; and on the instant I was thrilled with the love of Nuit. She came to me more swiftly than the light itself. My body was smitten by the kisses of the stars. When I breathed in, my flesh fell from me like rotten rags. I breathed out and felt a kiss swifter, more laughterful than death itself. Utter relief from all the deceits with which my brain had been blinded. I need not enter into detail of this trance. The text describes the facts better in every way than could be done in any other manner.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-128" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Each breath, as he drew it in, was an orgasm; each breath, as it went out, was a new dissolution into death.</p>
<p>Note that throughout these books death is always spoken of as a definite experience, a delightful event in one’s career.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-128" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This verse conceals a certain Magical Formula of the loftiest initiations. It refers to a method of using the breath, in connexion with the appropriate series of ideas, which is perhaps not to be taught directly. But it may be learnt by those who have attained the necessary degree of magical technique, suggested automatically to them by Nature Herself, just as newly-hatched chickens pick up corn without instruction.</p>
<p>(See Liber HAD. “Hell’s own worm” is, of course, Hadit.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
