<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch130.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.61." class="level3">
<h3>II.61.</h3>
<p><em>There is a light before thine eyes, o prophet, a light undesired, most desirable.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-126" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(61-68.) The scent of battle in my nostrils avails at least to awake my manhood, to arouse my Godhead within me. Throughout this chapter I had rebelled again and again against my Master; but now the darkness broke and fled. My True Self flamed up in me. I become one with Hadit; I entered into trance at once. A sudden light blazed in my eyes. Hadit arose within my heart; and on the instant I was thrilled with the love of Nuit. She came to me more swiftly than the light itself. My body was smitten by the kisses of the stars. When I breathed in, my flesh fell from me like rotten rags. I breathed out and felt a kiss swifter, more laughterful than death itself. Utter relief from all the deceits with which my brain had been blinded. I need not enter into detail of this trance. The text describes the facts better in every way than could be done in any other manner.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-126" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>At the ecstasy of this thought the prophet was rapt away by the God. First came a new strange light, His herald.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-126" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This chapter now enters upon an entirely new phase. The revelation or ‘hiding’ of Hadit had by now sunk into the soul of The Beast, so that He realized Himself.</p>
<p>(See Liber HAD.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
