<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch145.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.76." class="level3">
<h3>II.76.</h3>
<p><em>4 6 3 8 A B K 2 4 A L G M O R 3 Y X 24 89 R P S T O V A L. What meaneth this, o prophet? Thou knowest not; nor shalt thou know ever. There cometh one to follow thee: he shall expound it. But remember, o chose none, to be me; to follow the love of Nu in the star-lit heaven; to look forth upon men, to tell them this glad word.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-141" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(75-76.) With this the Angel changes His theme yet again with brusque swiftness, and propounds a final riddle. The object of this cipher is to furnish proof that the man destined to succeed me is my rightful heir. The test is that he is able to make clear the meaning of these “the numbers &amp; the words.” This brief passage stops as it began — on a sudden, and Aiwass goes on at once to issue a last command to myself. I am to keep in constant mind that I am Hadit, that I am ever to aspire to make myself one with all things that may be, yet also to keep watch over mankind, for whose sake I first started on the path of Magick. My mission is “to tell them this glad word.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-141" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(75-76.) A final revelation. The revealer to come is perhaps the one mentioned in I. 55 and III. 47. The verse goes on to urge the prophet to identify himself with Hadit, to practise the Union with Nu, and to proclaim this joyful revelation unto men.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-141" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>It is the prophet, the ‘forth-speaker’ who is never to know this mystery. But that does not prevent it from lying within the comprehension of the Beast, kept secret by him in order to prove any one who should claim sonship. (Cf. the note in brackets to the new comment on verse 75.</p>
<p>The last part of this verse presents no difficulty.</p>
<p>An XVI, Sun in Sagittarius. In the Appendix {WEH NOTE: the Appendix is still unrecovered} will be found the Qabalistic proofs referred to in the penultimate paragraph, as supporting the claim of Sir Charles Stansfeld Jones, whose occult names, numbers, dignities and titles, are as follows: PARZIVAL, Knight of the Holy Ghost, etc., X degree O.T.O., 418, 777, V.I.O. (Unus In Omnibus), Achad, or O.I.V.V.I.O. (Omnia in Uno, Unus in Omnibus), Fra A∴ A∴, 8° = 3□, Arctaeon, to be my son by Jeanne Foster, Soror Hilarion. [See Appendix for the technical explanation of this verse.] I may here briefly mention, however, that “Thou knowest not” is one of the cryptographic ambiguities characteristic of this Book. “Thou knowest” – see Cap. I verse 26, and ‘not’ is Nuith. The word ‘ever’ too, may be the objective of ‘know’, rather than merely an adverb.</p>
<p>Note “to be me”, not “to be I” – an evident reference to Nuit, “not”, MH. Cf. verse 13, comment. One can only exist by being Nuit, as explained in discussing the general magical theory.</p>
<p>Observe that I am here definitely enjoined to proclaim my Law to men, ‘to look forth’ instead of retiring from the world as mystics are wont to do. I may then be confident that this Work is a proper part of my Will.</p>
<p>Note: This ‘one’ is not to be confused with the ‘child’ referred to elsewhere in this Book. It is quite possible that O.I.V.V.I.O. (who took the grade of 8° = 3□ by an act of will without going through the lower grades in the regular way) failed to secure complete annihilation in crossing the Abyss; so that the drops of blood which should have been cast into the cup of Babalon should “breed scorpions, and vipers, and the Cat of Slime”. In this case he would develop into a Black Brother, to be torn in pieces and reduced to his Elements against his Will. ### II.77.</p>
<p><em>O be thou proud and mighty among men!</em></p>
</section>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-142" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(77-78.) Well knowing how men always act towards any prophet of Truth, mine Angel bids me to be “proud and mighty among men” — not to be humbled by the scorn or weakened by the blows of my fellows. In the middle of the Charter it was said “I lift thee up”. Now there is no more need of that. He cries “Lift up thyself!” He reminds me of my unique place in the ranks of men and Gods. “Lift up thyself,” he repeats; and tells me “thy stature shall surpass the stars.” My name shall be held worthy of worship, as also that of my house. There is again a secret meaning to this verse: it will be explained elsewhere.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-142" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(77-78.) Though the prophet had in a way at this time identified himself with the number 666, he considered the magic square drawn therefrom rather silly and artificial, if indeed it had yet been devised, on which point he is uncertain.</p>
<p>The true Square is as follows:</p>
<p>[It follows when it is discovered!]</p>
<p>The House of the Prophet, not named by him, was chosen by him before he attached any meaning to the number 418; nor had he thought of attaching any importance to the name of the House. He supposed this passage to be mystical, or to refer to some future house.</p>
<p>Yet on trial we obtain at once Boleskine = בּולשׁכּין {Beth-Vau-Lamed-Shin-Kaph-Yod-Nun} [HB:BVLShKY] = 418</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-142" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Pride is the quality of Sol, Tiphareth; Might of Mars, Geburah. Now Leo – my rising sign – combines these ideas, as does Ra-Hoor-Khuit. The Christian ideas of humility and weakness as ‘virtues’ are natural to slaves, cowards, and defectives.</p>
<p>(Not necessarily; it depends on how they are interpreted. If slaves, cowards, and defectives knew exactly what is meant by Christian virtues, few people would claim to be Christians, and there probably would not even exist a Church of Rome — there would not be fools in sufficient number to finance it. See the Tao The King; also, Liber LXV, v, 7; VII, iii, 53-60; v, 4.-48; vi, 33-35; vii, 1-6, 11-16, 50-52.)</p>
<p>The type of tailless simian who finds himself a mere forked radish in a universe of giants clamouring for hors d’oeuvres must take refuge from Reality in Freudian phantasies of ‘God’. He winces at the touch of Truth; and shivers at his nakedness in Nature.</p>
<p>He therefore invents a cult of fear and shame, and makes it presumption and blasphemy to possess courage and self-respect. He burrows in the slime of “Reverence, and godly fear; and makes himself houses of his own excrement, like the earthworm he is. He shams dead, like other vile insects, at the approach of danger; he tries to escape notice by assuming the colour and form of his surroundings, using ‘protective mimicry’ like certain other invertebrates.</p>
<p>He exudes stink or ink like the skunk or the cuttle-fish, calling the one Morality and the other Decency. He is slippery with Hypocrisy, like a slug; and, labelling the totality of his defects Perfection, defines God as Faeces so that he may flatter himself with the epithet divine. The whole manoeuvre is described as Religion.</p>
<p>(True humility is always able to understand true Pride. The devastating description above is directed at those who criticize the Book of the Law as lacking “Christian” virtues. It reminds one of the descriptions of the Pharisees in the New Testament.</p>
<p>“Pharisees”, however, are truly a state of mind, and not a class of society; unless one wishes to remark on the astounding regularity with which one finds Pharisees in priestly togae as soon as any Method of Theurgy ceases being a Method and becomes an Established Dogma.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
