<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch144.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.75." class="level3">
<h3>II.75.</h3>
<p><em>Aye! listen to the numbers &amp; the words:</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-140" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(75-76.) With this the Angel changes His theme yet again with brusque swiftness, and propounds a final riddle. The object of this cipher is to furnish proof that the man destined to succeed me is my rightful heir. The test is that he is able to make clear the meaning of these “the numbers &amp; the words.” This brief passage stops as it began — on a sudden, and Aiwass goes on at once to issue a last command to myself. I am to keep in constant mind that I am Hadit, that I am ever to aspire to make myself one with all things that may be, yet also to keep watch over mankind, for whose sake I first started on the path of Magick. My mission is “to tell them this glad word.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-140" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(75-76.) A final revelation. The revealer to come is perhaps the one mentioned in I. 55 and III. 47. The verse goes on to urge the prophet to identify himself with Hadit, to practise the Union with Nu, and to proclaim this joyful revelation unto men.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-140" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This passage following appears to be a Qablaistic test (on the regular pattern) of any person who may claim to be the Magical Heir of The Beast. Be ye well assured all that the solution, when it is found, will be unquestionable. It will be marked by the most sublime simplicity, and carry immediate conviction.</p>
<p>(The above paragraph was written previous to the communication of Charles Stansfeld Jones with regard to the ‘numbers and the words’ which constitute the Key to the cipher of this Book. See the Appendix to these comment. I prefer to leave my remark as it originally stood, in order to mark my attitude at the time of writing).</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
