<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch142.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ii.73." class="level3">
<h3>II.73.</h3>
<p><em>Ah! Ah! Death! Death! thou shalt long for death. Death is forbidden, o man, unto thee.</em></p>
<section id="the-djeridensis-comment-138" class="level4">
<h4>The Djeridensis Comment</h4>
<p>(73-74.) A final challenge rings out sharp. There is a doctrine with regard to death, stranger perhaps than all the others. It is a mark of success in Magick to get one’s work done fully in one’s prime, so that life has nothing left to offer, and one begins to long for the great journey into the unknown — the Call of the Old Long Trail. It is not lawful to hasten the start. The measure of the splendour of death is the strength and courage needed while waiting for it. The longer one lives and the more one wills to die, the more royal is one’s nature.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-138" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(73-74.) Yet death is forbidden: work, I suppose, must be done before it is earned; its splendour will increase with the years that it is longed for.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-138" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>There is a connection between Death, Sleep and Our Lady Nuit. (This is worked out, on profane lines, by Dr. Sigmund Freud, and his school, especially by Jung, “Psychology of the Unconscious”, which the reader should consult). The fatigue of the day’s toil creates the toxins whose accumulation is the ‘will to Die’. All mystic attainment is of this type, as all Magick is of the ‘Will to Live’. At times we all want Nibbana, to withdraw into the Silence, and so on. The Art of it is to dip deeply into ‘Death’, but to emerge immediately, a giant refreshed. This plan is also possible on the larger scale, all Life being Magick, all Death Mysticism.</p>
<p>Then why is Death ‘forbidden’? All things are surely lawful. But we must work “without lust of result”, taking everything as it comes without desire indeed, but with all manner of delight! Let thy Love-Madrigal to Death, thy Mother-Mistress, ripple and swell throughout the years, with all the Starry Heaven for thine Orchestra; but do not imagine that to attain Her is the sole satisfaction. It is the yearning itself that is Beatitude.</p>
<p>It may seem that in this verse the word “Death” is used in a sense somewhat other than that explained in the previous note. It is forbidden, observe, to ‘man’. That is, then, the formula must not be used by one who is still an imperfect being. (Nonsense. Man is a star; most human beings function not as Men, but as demons, that is to say, unbalanced minds. Most of mankind has not reached the balancing and harmonization of Tiphereth; many have not reached even the partial equilibration of Tiphereth of Malkuth! „Man‟ in the verse refers to 666, who finished His Work in his early forties, but for several Magickal reasons was forced to keep his physical link with this plane for thirty years longer. Of course, being in his thirties when he wrote the above Commentary, he did not understand this.) Our definition is surely confirmed by this phrase rather than denied, or even modified. To long for death is to aspire to the complete fulfilment of all one’s potentialities. And it would evidently be an error to insist upon passing on to one’s next life while there were hawsers unhitched from this one. The mere inexplicability of the various jerks would make for bewilderment, irritation, and clumsiness.</p>
<p>For this reason, alone, it is all-important to ascertain one’s true Will, and to work out every detail of the work of doing it, as early in life as one can. One is apt (at the best) to define one’s will dogmatically, and to devote one’s life almost puritanically to the task, sternly suppressing all side-issues, and calling this course Concentration. This is error, and perilous. For one cannot be sure that a faculty which seems (on the surface) useless, even hostile, to one’s work, may not in course of time become one of vital value. If it be atrophied – alas! Its suppression may moreover have poisoned one’s whole system, as a breast debarred from its natural use is prone to cancer. At best, it may be too late to repair the mischief; the lost opportunity may be a life-long remorse.</p>
<p>The one way of safety lies in applying the Law of Thelema with the utmost rigour. Every impulse, however feeble, is necessary to the stability of the whole structure; the tiniest flaw may cause the cannon to burst. Every impulse however opposite to the main motive, is part of the plan; the rifling does not thwart the purpose of the barrel. One should therefore acquiesce in every element of one’s nature, and develop it as its own laws demand, with absolute impartiality. One need not fear; there is a natural limit to the growth of any species; it either finds food fail, or is choked by its neighbours, or overgrows itself, and is transformed. Nor need one fret about the harmony and proportion of one’s various faculties; the fit will survive, and the perfection of the whole will be understood as soon as the parts have found themselves, and settled down after fighting the matter out in the balanced stability which represents their right reaction to each other, and to their environment. It is thus policy for an Aspirant to initiation to analyse himself with indefatigable energy, shrewd skill, and accurate subtlety; but then to content himself with indefatigable energy, shrewd skill, and accurate subtlety; but then to content himself with observing the interplay of his instincts, instead of guiding them. Not until he is familiar with them all should he perform the practices which enable him to read the Word of his Will. And, then having assumed conscious control of himself, that he may do his Will, he should make a point of using every faculty in a detached way (just as one inspects one’s pistols and fires a few rounds) without expecting ever to need them again, but on the general principle that if they were wanted, one might as well feel confident of the issue.</p>
<p>This theory of initiation is so important to every aspirant that I shall illustrate how my own ignorance bred error, and error injury. My Will was, I now know, to be The Beast, 666, a Magus, the Word of the Aeon, Thelema; to proclaim this new Law to mankind.</p>
<p>My passion for personal freedom, my superiority to sexual impulses, my resolve to master physical fear and weakness, my contempt for other people’s opinions, my poetic genius: I indulged all these to the full. None of them carried me too far, ousted the other, or injured my general well-being. On the contrary, each automatically reached its natural limit, and each has been incalculably useful to me in doing my Will when I became aware of it, able to organize its armies, and to direct them intelligently against the inertia of ignorance.</p>
<p>But I suppressed certain impulses in myself. I abandoned my ambitions to be a diplomatist. I checked my ardour for Science. I trampled upon my prudence in financial matters. I mortified my fastidiousness about caste. I masked my shyness in bravado, and tried to kill it by ostentatious eccentricity. This last mistake came from sheer panic; but all the rest were quite deliberate sacrifices on the altar of my God Magick.</p>
<p>They were all accepted, as it then seemed. I attained all my ambitions; yea, and more also. But I know now that I should not have forced my growth, and deformed my destiny. To nail geese to boards and stuff them makes foie gras, very true; but it does not improve the geese. It may be said that I strengthened my moral character by these sacrifices, and that I was indeed compelled to act as I did. The mad elephant Wantobemagus pulled over the team of oxen? We may put it like that, certainly; but still I feel that it might have been better had he not been mad. For, today, if I were an Ambassador, versed profoundly in Science, financially armed and socially stainless, I should be able to execute my Will by pressure upon all classes of powerful people, to make this comment carry conviction to thinkers, and to publish the Book of the Law in every part of the world. Instead, I am exiled and suspected, despised by men of science, ostracised by my class, and a beggar. If I were in my teens again! I cannot change my mind about which ridge I’ll climb the mountain by, now when I see, above these ice-glazed pinnacles storm-swept, through gashes torn from whirling wreaths of ~arrowy sleet, the cloud-surpassing summit, not far, not very far.</p>
<p>I regret nothing, be sure! I may be even in error to argue that an evident distortion of nature, and its issue in disaster, are proof of imprudence. Perhaps the other road would not have taken me to Cairo, to the climax of my life, to my true Will fulfilled in Aiwaz and made Word in this Book. Perhaps it is lingering “lust of result” that whispers hideous lies to daunt me, that urges these plausible arguments to accuse me. It may be that my present extremity is the very condition required for the fulfilment of my Work. Who shall say what is power, what impotence? Who shall be bold to measure the Morrow, or declare what causes conjoin to bring forth an Effect that no man knoweth?</p>
<p>Was not Lao-Tze thrust forth from his city? Did not Buddha go begging in rags? Did not Mohammed flee for his life into exile? Was not Bacchus the scandal and the scorn of men? Than Joseph Smith Had any man less learning? Yet each of these attained to do his Will; each cried his Word, that all the Earth yet echoes it! And each was able to accomplish this by virtue of that very circumstance which seems so cruel. Shall I, who am armed with all their weapons at once, complain that I must go into the fight unfurnished?</p>
<p>(One must hope that his success will go beyond Joseph Smith‟s, who was a flagrant case of “fool of men”. When reaching his first great mystical Trance — which was also his last — Smith found himself surrounded by that “thick, oppressive darkness” characteristic of Binah. He feared it; at once a “ray of white light” pierced it, and he saw “Jesus descend from heaven unto him.” Having thus fallen back from Samadhi into the lowest form of Dhyana, he conversed with “Because” under one of its innumerable shapes, “Jesus” being the one that had impressed his Kama Rupa and his Manas most from childhood, through parental and environmental conditioning. Finally he went and preached a “new” religion that had nothing of new, being, in essence, simply another form of Protestantism. As with any fool who is sufficiently firm in his own folly, a loto fother fools believed him, and Mormonism was born. The Book of Mormon makes most interesting study for parapsychopathologists.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
