<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch158.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.10." class="level3">
<h3>III.10.</h3>
<p><em>Get the stélé of revealing itself; set it in thy secret temple — and that temple is already aright disposed — &amp; it shall be your Kiblah for ever. It shall not fade, but miraculous colour shall come back to it day after day. Close it in locked glass for a proof to the world.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-154" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The Stéle of Revealing — see illustration.</p>
<p>That temple; it was arranged as an octagon; its length double its breadth; entrances on all four quarters of temple; enormous mirrors covering six of the eight walls (there were no mirrors in the East and West or in the western halves of the South and North sides).</p>
<p>There were an altar and two obelisks in the temple; a lamp above the altar; and other furniture.</p>
<p>Kiblah — any point to which one turns to pray, as Mecca is the Kiblah of the Mahometan.</p>
<p>“It shall not fade,” etc. It has not hitherto been practicable to carry out this command.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-154" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The language is here so obvious and so inane that one is bound to suspect a deeper sense. It sounds as bad as “the last winking Virgin” or St. Januarius.</p>
<p>(He not only disobeyed the above instruction, but also eventually sold Boleskine House, imagining that he would start an O.T.O. movement with the money. The Treasurer-General chosen by him promptly stole it.</p>
<p>Yet “a temple there stands” invisibly. The directions are Latitude 57.14 N. Longitude 4.28 W. The house was in Loch Ness, Scotland, lair of the “sea serpent”, 17 miles from Inverness.</p>
<p>“Kiblah” — the Spiritual East, not the physical East. Fire, Water, Air and Earth hold their regular attributions. It is the Element of Spirit — Akasha — that radiates from Boleskine.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
