<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch150.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.2." class="level3">
<h3>III.2.</h3>
<p><em>There is division hither homeward; there is a word not known. Spelling is defunct; all is not aught. Beware! Hold! Raise the spell of Ra-Hoor-Khuit!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-146" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Suggested by a doubt arising in the mind of the prophet as to the unusual spelling. But the “I” makes a difference in the qabalistic interpretation of the name.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-146" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>‘Division hither homeward’; a most dour phrase to interpret! Such curious concatenation is sure to imply profound meaning. Homeward must mean ‘toward the House of the Speaker. He says, then, that there is ’division’, which (as I take it) prevents man from being God. THis is a natural and orthodox meaning, and it goes well with ‘there’ (I.E. in verse 1) ‘is a word not known’. That Word is Abrahadabra, which was not known, it having been concealed by the corrupt spelling “abracadabra’.</p>
<p>(Nonsense. Abrahadabra has already been mentioned; it is the Word of the Aeon, and the very first word in the Third Chapter. „There is a word not kown‟: there is now a word, NOT, known. Hadit is Not. „Not‟ is a key-word, as we have already seen in previous comments.</p>
<p>Why „division hither homeward‟? Because the word „not‟ makes it impossible to “mix the planes”. The ideas of “One World”, “One Faith”, “One People” are not conducive to freedom, but to its opposite. They presuppose that all men, no matter how diverse of color, geographical situation, cultural background, or idiosyncrasies, must be subservient to some general standard, or ideal, of ethics or religion or law.</p>
<p>On the contrary, freedom depends on division, in the sense of each star keeping to its own orbit. “All is one!” — I hear beginning mystics, and Qabalistic Jews, object. All is not aught. “If ye confound the spacemarks…” says I, 52. Ra Hoor Khuit is the God that keeps each of us in his proper place, and to Him interference with another‟s will is the worst possible crime.</p>
<p>In the past, all religions tried to conquer the world, thereby causing infinite misery to mankind; nations tried to become empires, increasing said miser; men tried to rule other men, instead of fuling themselves. All this is over. The social, ethical and religious upheavals that have been shaking the planet since April 8,9, and 10 of 1904 have as their purpose to produce this “division” of Established Churches, Empires and “gods of men” into their component elements. I am not my neighbor — meaning that, above the Abyss, I and my neighbor are None. But if I said, “I am my neighbor”, as do imperfect mystics everywhere, I would be affirming not love — for love presupposes two — see I, 28-30 — but confusion, and my neighbor had better beware of me. In practice, people who affirm that they are you end up by wanting to use your wallet as if it were their’s.</p>
<p>This is a very important point for anybody who wishes to understand the Third Chapter.)</p>
<p>‘Spelling is defunct’; this seems to be an echo of the statement in Cap. II, v:5 “The rituals of the old time are black”. (The word ‘defunct’ is decidedly curious; the implication is ‘no longer able to fulfil its function’.) ‘Spelling’ then means ‘making spells’. And this is characteristic of Ra-Hoor-Khuit, that He demands not words, but acts. (Compare ‘The Paris Working’). So then we pass naturally to verse 3. ‘All is not aught’ is an abrogation of all previous law, on the accession of a Monarch. He wipes out the past as with a sponge.</p>
<p>(„All‟ is, of course, Pan, and the Initiate I Pan — see the analysis of VIAOV in Book Four, Part III, Chapter 5. Although Ra Hoor Khuit is proclaiming a New Word, He is not really changing anything. “All is ever as it was”. He is merely providing a clarification of existing knowledge. His Proclamation is to the Magickal Universe as Eistein’s Theory of Relativity is to Newtonian Physics. It changes nothing, but provcides us with a better understanding of everything, whereby we can make a more efficient use of existing Energy towards a better control of our environment.</p>
<p>„All is not aught‟: qabalistically, Not=31; AUGHT=1+6+3+5+9=24. 24+31=55. It seems, then, as if „All‟ is a technical name for the Major Adept in the Thelemic Current, 55 being a number of Geburah utilizing the Positive Light, 5x11. See Liber VII, iv, 29 and vii, 3.)</p>
<p>This phrase is also an excessively neat cipher or hieroglyph of the great Key to this Book. All (AL) is not aught (LA). AL is LA: that is to say, the phases of the Universe X and 0 are identical.</p>
<p>“Beware!” as if it were said to a soldier, “Attention!”</p>
<p>“Hold!”, that is, “Steady! LIsten to the Proclamation!”</p>
<p>“Raise the spell of Ra-Hoor Khuit!” That is “Here, I, the New God, utter my Word”.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
