<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch159.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.11." class="level3">
<h3>III.11.</h3>
<p><em>This shall be your only proof. I forbid argument. Conquer! That is enough. I will make easy to you the abstruction from the ill-ordered house in the Victorious City. Thou shalt thyself convey it with worship, o prophet, though thou likest it not. Thou shalt have danger &amp; trouble. Ra-Hoor-Khu is with thee. Worship me with fire &amp; blood; worship me with swords &amp; with spears. Let the woman be girt with a sword before me: let blood flow to my name. Trample down the Heathen; be upon them, o warrior, I will give you of their flesh to eat!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-155" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>“Abstruction.” It was thought that this meant to combine abstraction and construction, “i.e.”, the preparation of a replica, which was done.</p>
<p>Of course the original is in “locked glass.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-155" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The Victorious City is of course Cairo (Al-Kahira, the victorious), and the ill-ordered house is the Museum at Bulak.</p>
<p>Ra-Hoor-Khu; why is the name without its termination? Perhaps to indicate the essence of the force.</p>
<p>The Ritual of the Adoration of Ra-Hoor-Khuit is, as one might expect, illustrative of His nature. It seems doubtful whether this Ritual can ever be of the type of symbolic celebration; it appears rather as if expeditions against the Heather: i.e. Christians and other troglodytes – but most especially the parasites of man, the Jews – were to be His rite.</p>
<p>{WEH NOTE: The crack about Jews is often deleted from copies of the Comment. Crowley’s views in the 20s not withstanding, about 1/3 of the present members of O.T.O. are Jewish, the “Paris Working” was a homosexual love affair between Crowley and Victor Newberg, and Crowley wouldn’t even be “up a tree” without the Jewish Qabalah! One of the best features of Crowley is his absent-minded bigotry. No chance that any intelligent person would accept his opinions without repeated trial! In some versions of “Liber AlephLiber Aleph” the passage “never marry a nigger” appears after Crowley was seriously “paved” by his quadroon wife of the time. For the European whites, it is a matter of record that Crowley was sent a notice of expulsion from Beastship by Scarlet Woman Alostrael.}</p>
<p>And it is to be taken that ‘the woman’ is to take arms in His honour. This woman might be The Scarlet Woman, or perhaps Woman generally. Remember that in the Scarlet Woman ‘is all power given’; and I expect a new Semiramis.</p>
<p>(We have presented this note in full to give an idea of the several phases through which Aleister Crowley passed in his personal (in the sense of Personality) attempts at Commentary on the Third Chapter of AL)</p>
<p>It is utter folly to try to interpret these verses in terms of passing things. „Parasites of man — the Jews‟, for instance, is a phrase that the roman Catholic Church slyly encouraged thoughout ten centuries of religious persecution. A much more enlightened attitude is to be found in His Letter to a pupil reproduced as Chapter LXXIII of Magick Without Tears.</p>
<p>“Ra-Hoor-Khu”: The Name of the God varies according to his Manner of Manifestation. Accordingly, Ra-Hoor-Khut is His Manifestation as Sender fo the Current that radiates from Boleskine; Ra-Hoor-Khuit is His Manifestation as Lord of the Aeon; RaHoor-Khu is His Manifestation in the Soul, or Khu, of the worshipper. (He is, of course, an Ipsissimus; all true Gods are.) Better understanding of these variations of His Name comes only through practice.</p>
<p>“I forbid argument. Conquer! That is enough” — Again the old saw: All the world loves a winner. Do you True Will, and nothing else. Thelemites are NOT, repeat NOT, to preach or convert. They are to mind their own business, which is enough to occupy the time of anyone. Argument is of the Ruach, and the most it can produce is a manifestation of Because. This is the danger of all forms of theology.</p>
<p>“Conquer” — it does not mean to go out warring and killing, so sorry, dear sadists. Conquer your circumstances! Conquer yourself! Then, and only then, is a man in condition to conquer others — if that be necessary for performance of his True Will.</p>
<p>“Fire and blood” — see the attributions of the Element of Fire and the Magickal attributions and qabalistic correspondences of blood. (One most significant is, Blood=Semen. See Commentary to verse 24.)</p>
<p>Swords=Intellect. Spears=Magickal Will. See Book Four, Part II; Parsifal to Wagner; Liber 777.</p>
<p>“Let the woman bhe girt with a sword before me.” This dopes not mean to pass women through the sword, so sorry, dear paederasts. The Sword is the symbol of the Mind — see Book Four, Part II, again. The woman of Thelema must develop her intellect; she must be the equal of any man in intelligence and in reasoning power. The only thing a man can do (on this plane) that a woman can’t is to beget..</p>
<p>Incidentally, form 1904 to now the Revolution of Woman ahs been in full sway. It may eventually prove to have been much more important the Industrial revolution.</p>
<p>“let blood flow to my name” — Blood=semen.</p>
<p>“Trample down the Heathen” — the Heathen are all those who do not accept the Law of Thelema: Do what thou wilt. It does not mean “people who are not of our religion”. Thelema is NOT, repeat NOT, a religion. It is a Method Theurgy — or of Parapsychoanalysis, if you prefer. A Jew, or a Roman Catholic, or a Buddhist, or a Marxist, is not necessarily a “Heathen.” A “Thelemite” who wants to kill them because they don‟t call their idea of God Ra-Hoor-Khuit, is. See Liber OZ.</p>
<p>“I will give you of their flesh to eat!” — He does. And sometimes, very tasty it is.</p>
<p>There is also a technical meaning in the expression “Trample down the Heathen”, for HEATHEN = 5+5+1+9+5+5+50 = 80, one of the Holy numbers. See AL I, 46, 57, and Liber XVI; also VII, iii, 55-60.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
