<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch166.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.18." class="level3">
<h3>III.18.</h3>
<p><em>Mercy let be off: damn them who pity! Kill and torture; spare not; be upon them!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-162" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>An end to the humanitarian mawkishness which is destroying the human race by the deliberate artificial protection of the unfit.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-162" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>What has been the net result of our fine ‘Christian’ phrases? In the good old days there was some sort of natural selection; brains and stamina were necessary to survival. The race, as such consequently improved. But we thought we knew oh! so much better, and we had “Christ’s law” and other slush. So the unfit crowded and contaminated the fit, until Earth herself grew nauseated with the mess. We had not only a war which killed some eight million men, in the flower of their age, picked men at that, in four years, but a pestilence which killed six million in six months.</p>
<p>(The First World War and the epidemic that followed.)</p>
<p>Are we going to repeat the insanity? Should we not rather breed humanity for quality by killing off any tainted stock, as we do with other cattle? And exterminating the vermin which infect it, especially Jews and Protestant Christians? Catholic Christians are really Pagans at heart; there is usually good stuff in them, particularly in Latin countries. They only need to be instructed in the true meaning of their faith to reflect the false veils.</p>
<p>An XXI Sol in Cancer After some years spent in Catholic countries, I wish to modify the above. Catholics are dead alike to Spirituality and to Reason, as bad as Protestants. And the Jew is far from hopeless outside America, where the previous paragraph was written.</p>
<p>(The above is very funny, and we could not resist inserting both the first part, written right after World War I, and the second, written 1925ev. Having been born in a country where Roman Catholicism predominates, we could have told him the Roman Catholics are even worse than Protestants.</p>
<p>Crowley evidently had several bad experiences with American Jews. He was of course closely watched by Jewish Intelligence, and several traps were set to catch him in America. He resented this.</p>
<p>Aspirants must understand that Orthodox Qabalistic Jewish Orders resented Crowley even more. The Jews, considering themselves the Chosen People, having succeeded, despite all persecutions, in imposing their tribal codes on Western society, could not look with favour upon a Messiah who not only committed the unpardonable crime of being Gentile, but also tried to pass himself for Irish, pooh-poohed the Ten commandments, and described the Bible as by “several anonymous authors.”</p>
<p>However, what neither Crowley nor the Jews realized was that this verse of AL has nothing to do with pogroms, enforced sterilization, or such other modern versions of Doing-In-The-Amalekites.</p>
<p>“Mercy let be off‟: Let Chesed, Mercy, be under control of Tiphareth and Binah (OFF=6+6+6=18=3*6).</p>
<p>“damn them who pity” — Pity is, as we have already explained, unnecessary; it is also misleading, harmful and disorderly. Those who preach this diseased outlook of their fellowmen are vain, arrogant, and fundamentally selfish. The healthy man never worries about his health; the virtuous man never worries about the salvation of his soul; the true saint never has any doubts as tot he ultimate welfare of the entire company of mankind.</p>
<p>“Kill” — dying, physically or mystically, “them who pity” experience Hadit.</p>
<p>“and torture” — see the description of the work of the Master of the Temple in his underground garden, in Liber 418.</p>
<p>“spare not” — as the acid eats into the soul, only the gold will ultimately be left. See Liber LXV, I, 14-17.</p>
<p>“be upon them!” The Dance of Shiva on the body of the devotee. See Liber LXV, I, 57-58; v, 61-63; Liber VII, vii, 36-48.</p>
<p>These quotes should give an idea of how the Lord of the Aeon goes about setting back the right pegs into the right holes.</p>
<p>Why must Chesed be under control of Tiphareth and Binah? Because Chesed is the last, or First, Sephira below the Abyss; and the temptation to call itself the Alpha and the Omega is great. It not only is the First Sephira on the Pillar of Mercy, it also is Mercy by name, and Mercy is a quality that has been called “good” regardless of whether it is equilibrated by its opposite — Geburah — or not. Chesed is the origin of all disorder, because it is not directly connected with that Influence which should be its Governor and Ruler — Binah. Chesed is “Above” Tiphareth, and will try to give itself airs, forgetting that not only is Tiphareth perfectly equilibrated by nature, being the Central Sephira of the Tree, but also receives directly the Influence of the Highest through Gimel. Only Chokhmah and Binah besides have this privilege, and the are of the Supernals. Unless the Adept leaves everything has and is, and jumps off Chesed into the Abyss, on the slim chance of getting to Binah, and witougt even knowing whether he will get there, he must resign himself to receive Her influence through Geburah and through Tiphareth, which are technically his inferiors” in the Hierarchy.</p>
<p>Therefore, what Ra-Hoor-Khuit is saying is, let the Adept Exempt take the Oath of the Abyss! For, as it is written, “unbalanced force is iniquity”: Mercy untempered by Severity is but weakness that would permit abuse, and tolerate the manifestation of Evil. Again, See Liber VII, vii, 36-39.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
