<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch168.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.20." class="level3">
<h3>III.20.</h3>
<p><em>Why? Because of the fall of Because, that he is not there again.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-164" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>In answer to some mental “Why” of the prophet the God gives this sneering answer. Yet perhaps therein is contained some key to enable me one day to unlock the secret of verse 19, at present (Sun in 20 Degree Virgo, An. V.) obscure. [Now (Sun in Libra, An VII.) clear.]</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-164" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>There is here a perception of the profound law which opposes thought to action. We act, when we act aright, upon the instructive wisdom inherited from the ages. Our ancestors survived because they were able to adapt themselves to their environment; their rivals failed to breed, and so “good” qualities are transmitted, while ‘bad’ are sterile. Thus the race-thought, subconscious, tells a man that he must have a son, cost what it may. Rome was founded on the rape of the Sabine women. Would a reasoner have advocated that rape? Was it ‘justice’ or ‘mercy’ or ‘morality’ or ‘Christianity’.</p>
<p>There is much on the ethics of this point in Chapter II of this Book. Thomas Henry Huxley in his essay “Ethics and Evolution” pointed out the antithesis between these two ideas; and concluded that Evolution was bound to beat Ethics in the long run. He was apparently unable to see, or unwilling to admit, that his argument proved Ethics (as understood by Victorians) to be false. The Ethics of Liber Legis are those of Evolution itself. We are only fools if we interfere. Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law, biologically as well as in every other way.</p>
<p>Let us take an example. I am an antivaccinationist in a sense which every other antivaccinationist would repudiate. I admit that vaccination protects from small-pox. But I should like everybody to have small-pox. The weak would die; the strong might have pitted faces; but the race would become immune to the disease in a few generations.</p>
<p>On somewhat similar lines, I would advocate, with Samuel Butler, the destruction of all machinery. (I admit the practical difficulties of defining the limits of legitimate devices. The issue is this: how are we to develop human skill? The printing press is admirable in the hands of an Aldus, a Charles T. Jacobi, or even a William Morris. But the cheap mechanical printing of luetic rubbish on rotten pulp with worn types in inferior ink has destroyed the eyesight, putrefied the mind, and deluded the passions, of the multitude). For machines are dodges for avoiding Hard Work; and Hard Work is the salvation of the race. In the Time-Machine, H.G. Wells draws an admirable picture of a dichotomized humanity, one branch etiolated and inane, the other brutalized and automatic. Machines have already nearly completed the destruction of individual craftmanship. A man is no longer a worker, but a machine-feeder. The product is standardized; the result mediocrity. Nobody can obtain What He Will; he must be content with what knavery puts on the market. Instead of every man and every woman being a star, we have an amorphous pullulation of Vermin.</p>
<p>(Although the above is very interesting, it has nothign to do with the spiritaul meaning of this verse. It should be read in connection with verses 18 and 19, because itis the explanation of them.</p>
<p>Why must “Mercy” “be off”? Why shall the stele be called “Abomination of Desolation”? What is “the fall of Because”?</p>
<p>We transcribe here a letter published in Newsweek, on February 26, 1968:</p>
<p>“At the service held at Arlington National Cemetery, I recited in Hebrew the opening words of Psalm 22, “Eli, eli, Lammah asavthani” (“My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me”), not “Eli, Eli, Lama Sabachthani,” which is an Aramaic transliteration.</p>
<p>“According to (Jewish) tradition, this psalm, a cry of supreme anguish, is customarily recited when one is about to make an appeal to a Head of State. Queen Esther recited it when she entered the court of the King to appeal to him for mercy. Wherever God is present, there is mercy. Wherever there is no mercy, God is absent and we are forsaken.”</p>
<p>Abraham Joshua Heschel Jewish Theological Seminary, New York City</p>
<p>Serious students should remember the description of the initiation of the Master of the Temple in Liber 418. They should remember the Commentaries to AL II, vv. 5, 7, 8, 21, 23, 48, 49, 59, 60.</p>
<p>We quote now three passages from The Case of the Drowsy Mosquito, by Mr. Erle Stanley Gardner (Copyright 1943 Erle Stanley Gardner, William Morow and Co., Inc.):</p>
<p>“The desert is the best mother a man ever had. You do what she wants you to and she‟s kind to you. She trains you to do your thinking for yourself, too, and that‟s good; but just you forget about her laws, and you‟ve got trouble on your hands — lots of trouble. A man don‟t make a mistake only once in the desert.”</p>
<p>“Lots of people hate the desert. That’s because they’re really afraid of it. They’re afraid of being left alone with themselves. There‟s lots of people you could put down in the middle of the desert, go away and leave „e for a week, and come back and find them completely crazy. I’ve seen it happen. Man sprained his ankle once, couldn‟t travel. The party he was with had to go right on, but they left him with lots of water and food, plenty of matches, lots of wood. All he had to do was to just keep quiet for three or four days until he got so he could travel. He showed up in civilization just about half crazy. His ankle was all inflamed, said he‟d rather have lost the whole leg than to have stayed on in that desert for another ten minutes.”</p>
<p>“I think it’s beautiful,” Velma Starler said.</p>
<p>“Sure it’s beautiful,” Salty agreed. “People get scared of it because out here they‟re alone with their Maker. Some people can’t stand that.”</p>
<p>“You know, folks, the desert is the kindest mother a man ever had, because she‟s so cruel. Cruelty makes you careful and self-reliant, and that’s what the desert wants. She don‟t want any softies hanging around. Sometimes, when she‟s blistering hot and the light burns your eyes out, you see only the cruelty. But then, along this time of day, she smiles back at you and tell you her cruelty is really kindness, and you can see it form her viewpoint — and it’s the right viewpoint.”</p>
<p>Now we quote a passage of A.C.’c Commentary to Liber LXV, iv, 61:</p>
<p>“Apart from this general signification there is a personal allusion to 666 who is Alastor, the Spirit of Solitude. Foolish Rabbins have included this symbol in their list of demons. To the well-fed Pharisee ass to the modern bourgeois nothing seems more frightful than solitude in which the mind is compelled to face reality. Such people fear nothing so much as the wilderness. The very legend of their tribe deals with the „land of milk and honey‟, the Promised Land, the wish phantasm of the sensual.</p>
<p>“Observe that his is merely a matter f point of view. Cap V, vv. 59-62: What is to the smug Jew, with his Oedipus complex, the extreme abomination, is to us a „land beyond honey and spice and all perfection‟, though we call it „Naught‟. We consider them „weary ones‟ and their ideal of comfort and civilization as „old grey land‟. De gustibus non est disputandum. But there is a criterion in this case by which we can determine whether we or they have chosen the better part. For it is evident that no condition of existence can be really satisfactory if its joy is liable to be disturbed. The question is whether its nature is harmonious with that of the Universe. For stability depends thereon. We should find consequently that the ideal of the bourgeois is repose, and his conception of the Cosmos static. Now we find that this is not the case. The Universe is a constant flux. To desire repose is thus contrary to Nature herself. We accept this fact and define the Black Brothers directly as those who seek to check the course of events. The bourgeois is for us therefore a clumsy ignorant amateur Black Magician. Our idea of joy is unchecked free motion, and the stability of our joy is assured by our very conception of Yesod. We find the foundation of the Universe to be continuous change. The more we change, the more fixed we are in our joy. (Refer to the 11th and 3rd Aethyrs, and several similar passages in the Holy Books.) We are guaranteed by the nature of things in themselves, whereas the bourgeois is constantly being upset by such trivial matters as the efflux of time and the rate of exchange.</p>
<p>“The epithet „desolate‟ attracts the attention immediately. The word is derivd from de-solare, de having an intensive force, so that desolate means „utterly alone‟. The Hierophants have however been accustomed to communicate arcana in the presence of the profane by taking advantage of the similarity of sound between Sol and solus, especially in such parts of the declension as soli, which is genitive singular of sol and ablative plural of solus. The word desolate may therefore be intended to indicate the attribution of the Angel both to Kther (Solus) and to Tiphereth (Sol). The de may imply a reference to his relation with the Adept thorugh the Path of Daleth, Love, especially in view of the fact that His Word Thelema, 93, contains the idea of Agape, 93.”</p>
<p>The above quotations should be sufficient for serious students to begin to understand the spiritual implications of Thelemic Initiation, and particularly the Spiritual Nature of the Lord of the Aeon, whose Word this Third Chapter of AL is.</p>
<p>While it is true that Initiates made use of Sola nd Solis as long as Latin was the courtesy-language in the West, the concept of God in a lonely place much precedes it. The Jews, „having the half, sensed this worship of God I high, lonely places. In the New Testament we find that “John the Baptist” called himself the “Voice in the Wilderness”. “Jesus” is said to have wandered int he desert. It is true that in this Aeon the Hermit is not to be found in the desert. Geographically speaking. For, “You can be lonely among men, too,” says the snake (the snake, no less!) in St. Exupery’s Little Prince.</p>
<p>There is a practical aspect to this whole question that had better be mentioned, and it consists of the Ordeal that might be called „Invoking Mercy‟. Aspirants will occasionally try to blackmail Heru-ra-ha, or Aiwass, or 666, into „saving them‟. Such Aspirants will deliberately get themselves into dangerous situations, into desperate straits, hoping for a last minute „rescue‟ by “the Gods”. Such Aspirants usually die. When they do not die, they go insane. Let his be a warning. Heru-ra-ha shows no mercy. What He has to say to anybody in a desperate situation is this: “Success is your proof; courage is your armour. There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt.”</p>
<p>Or, in other words: Sink or swim.</p>
<p>Which brings us to Mr. Heschel’s very simple assertion of Jewish orthodox theology: “Wherever God is present, there is mercy. Wherever there is no mercy, God is absent and we are forsaken.”</p>
<p>It strikes at once any mind that has the seed of Thelemic endeavor that God can never be absent, since God is omnipresent. If God abstains from showing „mercy‟, then, God must have a reason. And God being „good‟, the reason must be a good reason. Sometimes a living father will refuse candy to a pleading child. And the mother bird pecks her adult offspring if they try to come back into the nest.</p>
<p>For fifteen hundred years, the Jews — the Chosen People, no less — prayed God for deliverance. For fifteen hundred years they prayed God to let them go back to Palestine. For fifteen hundred years they prayed God for the Messiah.</p>
<p>For fifteen hundred years the Jews were persecuted. For fifteen hundred years they were kept out of Palestine. For fifteen hundred years every nation had a Messiah of some sort but they.</p>
<p>Then came the Messiah of all, with a Law for all. The Chosen People at once sensed His Import, and indignantly denied His Message. Six million of them died without mercy. Then they stopped asking God for mercy and took matters in their own hands. They are back in Palestine. As “Promised Lands” go, it is no treat. But using their heads and their hands, they are raising flowers in the desert.</p>
<p>Still, old-line Rabbins will hardly recognize the Messiah. That is quite all right, gentlemen; we don‟t need you; but you need us. And the true seers, the true poets, the true thinkers among you are waking up. Thelemites are of all cultures and of all races. Your young men and young women are beginning to sing new songs. If you don‟t believe me, read the end of “Gideon”, that beautiful play by Paddy Chayefski.</p>
<p>We come at last to the move why the stele 666 shall be called — by the outcast and th unfit — the Abomination of Desolation. “Because of the fall of Because, that the is not there again.” The “Black Brother” makes himself a false crown of the horror of the Abyss, a crown which he places in Daath; but he abides in Chesed. Chesed is the Crowned King, Jupiter, the Lord of the Gods. It is to him that the profane and low initiates apply for mercy. He is the Father Image — the most insidious of all forms of Because, because it will assume any shape you may wish to worship. The mind is protean.</p>
<p>Readers are here referred to our Commentaries to AL II, vv. 27, 28, 32, 52, and to our comment on Joseph Smith, at the end of A.C.‟s Commentary to verse 73.</p>
<p>Why does A.C. speak o the “smug Jew, with his Oedipus complex”? Because the story of Oedipus is symbolical of High Initiation. In order to become a Man — the riddle of the Sphinx — the boy Oedipus must kill his father (destroy the Father Image in his own psyche) and possess his mother (destroy the Mother Image in his own psyche). Readers will please notice that the whole story of Oedipus is a veil of the Mysteries of Eleusis.</p>
<p>Serious students are referred to Liber LXV, v. 34-40; Liber VII, vii, 22-24; Liber CCCXXXIII, 26, and the Commentary thereon by A.C.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
