<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch165.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.17." class="level3">
<h3>III.17.</h3>
<p><em>Fear not at all; fear neither men nor Fates, nor gods, nor anything. Money fear not, nor laughter of the folk folly, nor any other power in heaven or upon the earth or under the earth. Nu is your refuge as Hadit your light; and I am the strength, force, vigour, of your arms.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-161" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The infinite unity is our refuge, since if our consciousness be in that unity, we shall care nothing for the friction of its component parts. And our light is the inmost point of illuminated consciousness.</p>
<p>And the great Red Triangle is as a shield, and its rays are far-darting arrows!</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-161" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The last paragraph is a singular confirmation of the view which I have taken of Our Hierarchy: compare what has been said on the subject in previous chapters.</p>
<p>(A note on the technical meaning of this verse is necessary. First, the injunction not to fear must be taken with the utmost seriousness, since fear, in one form or another, is the main element in any ordeal. Aspirants will be put into situations of peril, will suffer threats from gods (note “gods” in minuscules; true Gods never threaten you, or even speak to you, as a rule), from rich people, from the mob, from angels, animals, or demons. The Fates themselves will seem to turn against them. Aspirants must not heed any of this. See VII, iv, 48; Liber Tzaddi, vv. 15-17; Liber LXV, iii, 29-33; iv, 33-41.</p>
<p>“Your arms” — your Magickal Weapons, the Wand, the Cup, the Sword and the Disk. The God is then, of course, a form of Adonai: See Liber LXV, v, 14-16, 65. He is this as Ra-Hoor-Khu. The Mass of the Phoenix — — is the fullest possible expression of how the Lord of the Aeon is the “strength, force, vigour of your arms.”</p>
<p>In the Classification of the Elements of the Hindus, Heru-ra-ha stnads for Akasha, Hadit for the Sixth and Nuit for the Seventh.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
