<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch167.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.19." class="level3">
<h3>III.19.</h3>
<p><em>That stélé they shall call the Abomination of Desolation; count well its name, &amp; it shall be to you as 718.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-163" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>718 is υπομονη {upomone}, the abstract noun equivalent to Perdurabo. (Sun in 3 Degree Cancer, An. VII.)</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-163" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The reference appears to be to the old prophecies of ‘Daniel’ and ‘John’. The first Qabalistic allusion is yet (An XIV {?} in {?} ) undiscovered.</p>
<p>An XVII Sol in Libra. I think it proper to insert here the account of the true meaning of this verse, though it more properly belongs to the Appendix. But the circumstances are so striking that it is well worth the while of the lay reader to become acquainted with the nature of the reasoning which attests the praeterhuman character of the Author of this Book.</p>
<p>It follows, in the words in which it was originally written, An XVII Sol in Gemini, Moon in Cancer, June 8, 1921 e.v., with no preliminaries, in my Magical Diary, at the Abbey of Thelema in Cephaloedium of Trinacria. (He means Cefalu, Sicily.)</p>
<p>These verses are very subtly worded. How should I understand this allusion to the stele; how “count well its name” without knowing it?</p>
<p>I tried to count “Abomination of Desolation”, but that is what “they shall call” it, not its proper name.</p>
<p>It seemed that this name, when found, ought to add to 718, or to be identical with some other word or phrase that did so. More, this name when found must some how express “the fall of Because”.</p>
<p>For many years these two verses, despite elaborate research, yielded no meaning soever. At last I chanced on Upsilon-pi-omicron-mu-omicron-nu-eta as 718; it means “persistence”, the Greek noun corresponding to “Perdurabo”, my first magical Motto. Of course the Stele had persisted since the 26th Dynasty, but that scarecely justified naming it “Persistence”; also, there was nothing about “the fall of Because”.</p>
<p>Now (An XVII, Sol in Gemini, Moon in Cancer) I was going through the Law in order to repair any details of omission in the rituals ordained, and found these verses introduced among the instructions. They fascinated me; when I had finished the work in hand, I returned to them and worked for some hours with a Lexicon, starting from the word APXH, Cause, 709, to find some phrase equal to 718 which would deny Cause. I found AZA, 9, a word meaning “dryness”, but most especially the dirt or mould upon a disused object. APXH AZA is, therefore, a precise expression of the doctrine expounded in our Law about “Because”.</p>
<p>So far, so good; but this is no sense the name of the Stele.</p>
<p>I worked on, and found XOIZA, 718, “Yesterday” which might be grasped as a straw if I sank the third time; but I was swimming strongly enough.</p>
<p>I found XAIPE A∴A∴ 718, “Hail to the A∴A∴”. I gracefully acknowledged the greeting to Our Holy Order, but went on with my search.</p>
<p>There is no such word as AXPICTA, “unchristlike things”; only blind bigotry could be satisfied with so crude an invention.</p>
<p>Then came XAPA H, 713, an engraved character. That was a true name for the Stele; if I suffixed AD, 5, it might read “The Mark of Hadit”. But I did not feel inwardly that thrill of ecstacy that springs in the heart or that dawn of amazement that kindles the mind, when Truth’s sheer simplicity takes form. There is a definite psychological phenomenon which accompanies and important discovery. It is like First Love, at First Sight, to the one; like the recognition of a Law of Nature, to the other. It inflames one with Love for the Universe, and it explains all its puzzles, in a flash; and it gives an interior conviction which nothing can shake, a living certainty quite beyond one’s argued acquiescence in any newly acquired facts.</p>
<p>I lacked this; I knew that I had to seek further. The Truth uttered by Aiwaz is hidden with such exquisite art that it is always easy to wring out a more or less plausible meaning by torture. Yet all such learned and ingenious fumblings reveal their own impotence; the Right Key opens the safe in a second, so simply and smoothly as to make it ridiculous to doubt that the lock was made by a master smith to respond to that key and no other.</p>
<p>The reader will have noticed that all the really important correspondences in this Book are so simple that a child might understand them. There are also my own creaking and lumbering scholar-dredgers, not one of which is truly illuminating or even convincing. The real solutions, moreover, are almost always confirmed by other parts of the text, or by event subsequent to the Writing of the Book.</p>
<p>I worked on: I asked myself for the thousandth time what the Stele could claim with literal strictness as “its name”. I scribbled the word CTHAH and added it up. the result is 546, when CT counts as 500, or 52, when CT is 6, a frequent usage, as in CTAYPOS, whose number is thus 777.</p>
<p>Idly enough, my tired pen subtracted 52 from 718. I started up like a Magician who, conjuring Satan in vain till Faith’s lamp sputters, and Hope’s cloak is threadbare, gropes, heavily leaning on the staff of Love, blinking and droning along – and suddenly sees HIm!</p>
<p>I did the sum over, this time with my pen like a panther. Too good to be true! I added my figures; yes, 718 past denial. I checked my value of Stele; 52, and no error. Then only I let myself yield to the storm of delight and wonder that rushed up from the Hand of Him that is throned in the Abyss of my Being; and I wrote in my Magical Record the Triumph for which I have warred for over seventeen years</p>
<p>718</p>
<p>CYHAH 6 6 6</p>
<p>No fitter name could be found, that was sure … —</p>
<p>And then came a flash to confirm me, to chase the last cloud of criticism; the actual name of the Stele, its ordinary name, the only name it ever had until it was called the “Stele of Revealing”, in the Book of the Law, itself, “its name” in the catalogue of the Museum at Boulak, was just this: “Stele 666”.</p>
<p>I have described this discovery at length because I wash to emphasize its importance.</p>
<p>Most of the numbers and words openly mentioned in the Book of the Law which conceal Secret Matters were already at that time possessed of a certain significance for me. Some unconscious co-operation of my mind might be alleged as the determinant factor in the choice of those numbers, their subsequent interconnexions, and so on explained by the commentators’ ingenuity, and the confirmation of independent facts by coincidence.</p>
<p>Similarly, the hidden numbers such as 3,141593, 395, 31, 93, may be ascribed to the commentators, and denied to the intention of the text; at least, by that class of Pharisee which strains at the Butterfly of the Soul, preferring to swallow any hippopotamus if it be slimed thickly enough with the miasmal swamp-mire of materialism.</p>
<p>But 718 is expressed openly; its nature is described sufficiently and unambiguously; and it meant nothing to anybody in the world, either then or for seventeen years after.</p>
<p>And now the meaning falls so pat, so natural, so self-justified, so evidently the unique value of the ‘x’ of the equation, that it is impossible to quibble.</p>
<p>The law of probablities excludes all theories but one. The simple Truth is what I have always asserted.</p>
<p>There is a Being called Aiwaz, an intelligence discarnate, who wrote this Book of the Law, using my ears and hand. His mind is certainly superior to my own in knowledge and in power, for He has dominated me and taught me ever since.</p>
<p>But that apart, the proof of any discarnate intelligence, even of the lowest order, has never before been established. And lack of that proof is the flaw in all the religions of the past; man could not be certain of the existence of “God”, because though he knew many powers independent of muscle, he knew of no consciousness independent of nerve.</p>
<p>(One asks oneself, could he really be so naïve as to believe this reasoning? And that this was sufficient proof of the existence of discarnate intelligence to a truly skeptical mind? The answer is yes in both cases. It would never have occurred to him that a careful preparation on his part of all the keys in the MMSS, and a steady „play-acting‟ for the rest of his life, would be just as possible.</p>
<p>The point of the matter is, the Book has been fulfilling itself in the life of mankind steadily, ever since the days of its dictation. This is a much more convincing proof than any that could have been represented by the scribe. Also, personal research brings evidence of the Intelligence behind the writing, and of other Intelligences who evidently “are of us”.</p>
<p>More: even had Crowley prepared all the keys himself, and „play-acted‟ the rest of his life, the extraordinary reach of the hidden meanings of the Book of the Law, its psychological depth, the almost unbelievable wealth of its insight, would be sufficient evidence of the exceptional quality of the Mind who wrote it. Were we to believe that it was the “scribe and prophet” himself the author, this would just be added justification for obeying him. For surely this would have been a man much more worthy of obedience than Jesus, Buddha, or Karl Marx.</p>
<p>And yet, what is the injunction given by this man to each who would obey him? “Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.”</p>
<p>Why shall that stele be called “The Abomination of Desolation”? This is an extremely important point, the basis of all the revolutions in theology that have been occurring since 1904.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
