<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch164.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.16." class="level3">
<h3>III.16.</h3>
<p><em>Deem not too eagerly to catch the promises; fear not to undergo the curses. Ye, even ye, know not this meaning all.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-160" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Courage and modesty of thought are necessary to the study of this book. Alas! we know so very little of the meaning.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-160" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The God wisely refrains from clear expression, so that the event, as it occurs, may justify His word. This progressive illumination of that word has served to keep it alive as no single revelation could have done. Every time that I have dulled to Liber Legis something has happened to rekindle it in my heart.</p>
<p>(The word „ye‟ is usually employed in the verses as a cypher of the Beast and The Scarlet Woman — Yod+He.)</p>
<p>“Know ‘not’ this meaning ‘all’”; another cipher for LA = AL.</p>
<p>(Yes, but there is also a more literal meaning. As any fool can see, Liber AL is full of “promises” and “curses”. Initiation may change, sometimes even reverse, the meaning of such passages. The Four Great Ordeals, for instance, do so. Bu in no case is there a logical contradiction!)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
