<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch172.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.24." class="level3">
<h3>III.24.</h3>
<p><em>The best blood is of the moon, monthly: then the fresh blood of a child, or dropping from the host of heaven: then of enemies; then of the priest or of the worshippers: last of some beast, no matter what.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-168" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(23-25.) This incense was made; and the prediction most marvellously fulfilled.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-168" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>A: menstrual blood.</p>
<p>B: possibly “dragon’s blood”.</p>
<p>These two kinds of ‘blood’ are not to be confused. The student should be able to discover the sense of this passage by recollecting the Qabalistic statement that “The blood is the life”, consulting Book 4 Part III, and applying the knowledge which reposes in the Sanctuary of the Gnosis of the Ninth Degree of O.T.O. The ‘child’ is “BABALON and THE BEAST conjoined, the Secret Saviour”, that is, the Being symbolized by the Egg and Serpent hieroglyph of the Phoenician adepts. The second kind is also a form of BAPHOMET, but differs from the ‘child’ in that it is the Lion-Serpent in its original form.</p>
<p>The process of softening and smoothing down is thus in this case that of vitalizing the Eagle. It is inadvisable to word this explanation, in terms too intelligible to the profane, since uninitiated attempts to make use of the formidable arcana of Magick presented in this passage could lead only to the most fulminating and irremediable disaster.</p>
<p>(Menstrual blood is the best blood because it is completely free of karma, being a natural elimination of the organism.</p>
<p>The “sacrifice of children”, so commonly described in the traditions of many different religions, is to be interpreted alchemically. This is a hint for Christians and Jews.</p>
<p>It was the catastrophe that overtook Atlantis (where Alchemy was general practice) that, leaving only garbled legends in its many colonies, caused the cruel and superstitious corruption of the Bloody Sacrifice. (Incidentally, Atlantis was not “destroyed for its sins”. Its disappearance was due to one of the periodical upheavals of the earth‟s crust which occur with twenty to thirty thousand year intervals.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
