<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch170.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.22." class="level3">
<h3>III.22.</h3>
<p><em>The other images group around me to support me: let all be worshipped, for they shall cluster to exalt me. I am the visible object of worship; the others are secret; for the Beast &amp; his Bride are they: and for the winners of the Ordeal x. What is this? Thou shalt know.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-166" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>This first charge was accomplished; but nothing resulted of a sufficiently striking nature to record.</p>
<p>The Ordeal “X” will be dealt with in private.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-166" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>There are to be no regular temples of Nuith and Hadit, for They are incommensurables and absolutes. Our religion therefore, for the People, is the Cult of the Sun, who is our particular star of the Body of Nuit, from whom, in the strictest scientific sense, come this earth, a chilled spark of Him, and all our Light and Life. His vice-regent and representative in the animal kingdom is His cognate symbol the Phallus, representing Love and Liberty. Ra-Hoor-Khuit, like all true Gods, is therefore a Solar-Phallic deity. But we regard Him as He is in truth, eternal; the Solar-Phallic deities of the old Aeon, such as Osiris, “Christ”, Hiram, Adonis, Hercules, &amp;c., were supposed, through our ignorance of the Cosmos, to ‘die’ and rise again’. Thus we celebrated rites of ‘crucifixion’ and so on, which have now become meaningless. Ra-Hoor-Khuit is the Crowned and Conquering Child. This is also a reference to the ‘Crowned’ and Conquering ‘Child’ in ourselves, our own personal God. Except ye become as little children, said ‘Christ’, ye shall not enter into the Kingdom of God. The Kingdom of Malkuth, the Virgin Bride, and the Child is the Dwarf-Self, the Phallic consciousness, which is the true life of Man, beyond his ‘veils’ of incarnation. We have to thank Freud – and especially Jung – for stating this part of the Magical Doctrine so plainly, as also for their development of the connexion of the Will of this ‘child’ with the True or Unconscious Will, and so for clarifying our doctrine of the ‘Silent Self’ or ‘Holy Guardian Angel’. They are of course totally ignorant of magical phenomena, and could hardly explain even such terms as “Augoeides’; and they are seriously to blame for not stating more openly that this True Will is not to be daunted or suppressed; but within their limits they have done excellent work.</p>
<p>(Some technical aspects of this verse must be mentioned. First, the Ordeal x consists in the perception that 666 is the Christ, or Messiah, of this Aeon. This perception must be intuitional; it cannot be a matter of dogma or of faith. Whosoever does not have it is not qualified to officiate at Thelemic rites.</p>
<p>As to public rites, the extant religions will remain untouched by us. Strange as it may seem, there shall be no „holy wars‟ or persecutions. Any cult is allowable, provided it does not try to frighten people into conversion with threats of „hell‟ or condemnation, and provided its faithful do not try to attack, punich, or pressure those of other creeds. See Liber OZ.</p>
<p>„let all be worshipped, for they shall cluster to exalt me‟. The Law is for all; the Lord of the Aeon is manifest in the images of all faiths. Consequently, all cults of men will gravitate towards acceptance of the Rights of Man as expressed in Liber OZ, without any need of our intervention on this plane.</p>
<p>As for Thelemic rites, they shall never be open. The Mass of the Phoenix is individual, to be performed at home in one‟s personal chapel. The Canonic Mass of the O.T.O. is to be performed only in the presence of those who intend to communicate; no others are to be present.</p>
<p>Our rites are not “secret”, insofar as you can find them openly published, openly explained, and openly described. But they are private. Each human being has the right to worship or not to worship, as he will or as she will. We do not preach and we do not convert. We are skeptical of the spiritual value of established churches and organized religions. We have no wish to start one more. We keep in mind the deep warning of Robert Louis Stevenson‟s “The House of Eld”.</p>
<p>Neither the word “church” nor the word “religion” occur in the Book of the Law. Let our mitres be invisible and our thrones unknown.</p>
<p>Serious students should consult, besides the writings mentioned above, AL I, 10-11, 15, 17, 34, 39-40, 50-51, 52-53, 61-62, AL II, 5-9, 17-23, 24-25; VII, vii, 11-14, 25-33.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
