<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch187.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.39." class="level3">
<h3>III.39.</h3>
<p><em>All this and a book to say how thou didst come hither and a reproduction of this ink and paper for ever — for in it is the word secret &amp; not only in the English — and thy comment upon this the Book of the Law shall be printed beautifully in red ink and black upon beautiful paper made by hand; and to each man and woman that thou meetest, were it but to dine or to drink at them, it is the Law to give. Then they shall chance to abide in this bliss or no; it is no odds. Do this quickly!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-183" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>This is being done; but quickly? No. I have slaved at the riddles in this book for nigh on seven years; and all is not yet clear (Sun in Virgo 20 Degree, An. V.). Nor yet (Sun in Libra, An VII.).</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-183" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This account is published with this comment itself.</p>
<p>(So had he intended; but the Commentary (not The Comment!) was written over a period of many years; parts were modified, parts were eliminated as his understanding increased. Curiously enough, The Comment, to which he paid little attention at the time of writing, was the only part in Class A with AL itself. It took forty years for him to understand its depth and sufficiency. Indeed, Hadit “made swift and secure his pen”. A first version of the Commentary was published in the Equinox, Vo. I No. 7. It was much shorter than this, which in its major part was written in Cefalu, Sicily, several years later.)</p>
<p>The present volume is thus the obedience to this command.</p>
<p>(Not so; what approached most “obedience to this command” was the edition of Book Four Part IV, The Equinox of the Gods, by Frater SATURNUS, 8=3 A∴A∴, accompanied by a boxed facsimile of the MMSS of AL.)</p>
<p>‘At them’ may mean ‘at their house’, that is, one must give when one recognizes any one as a potential king by accepting his hospitality. An alternative meaning is “in their honour”.</p>
<p>(The instruction above was meant for him only.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
