<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch188.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.40." class="level3">
<h3>III.40.</h3>
<p><em>But the work of the comment? That is easy; and Hadit burning in thy heart shall make swift and secure thy pen.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-184" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>I do not think it easy. Though the pen has been swift enough, once it was taken in hand. May it be that Hadit hath indeed made it secure!</p>
<p>[I am still (Autumn 1911 - An VII., Sun in Libra), entirely dissatisfied.]</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-184" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>I am less annoyed with myself than when I wrote the “Old Comment”, but not wholly content. How is one to write a comment? For whom? One has more than the difficulties of the lexicographer. Each new Postulant presents new problems; the degrees and kinds of their ignorance are no less numerous than they. I am always finding myself, sailing along joyously for several months in the belief that my teaching is helping somebody, suddenly awakened to the fact that I have made noway whatever, owing to the object of my solicitude having omitted to learn that Julius Caesar conquered Gaul, or something of the sort, which I had assumed to be a matter of universal Knowledge.</p>
<p>(“The Comment” to which the verse refers is that signed ANKH-F-N-KHONSU at the end of Liber AL. It is in Class A, as we have already explained, and perfectly clear to anyone.</p>
<p>Then you may ask, “What of this commentary „by another‟? Did not the Prophet forbid discussion of the contents of AL?”</p>
<p>This Commentary „by another‟ is in Class C, was written at our own risk and peril, and There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt. If it profit anyone, anywhere, let our success be our proof.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
