<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch191.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.43." class="level3">
<h3>III.43.</h3>
<p><em>Let the Scarlet Woman beware! If pity and compassion and tenderness visit her heart; if she leave my work to toy with old sweetnesses; then shall my vengeance be known. I will slay me her child: I will alienate her heart: I will cast her out from men: as a shrinking and despised harlot shall she crawl through dusk wet streets, and die cold and an-hungered.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-187" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(43-45.) The two latter verses have become useless, so far as regards the person first indicated to fill the office of “Scarlet Woman.” In her case the prophecy of v. 43 has been most terribly fulfilled, to the letter; except the last paragraph. Perhaps before the publication of this comment the final catastrophe will have occurred (Sun in 20 Degree Virgo, An V.). It or an even more terrible equivalent is now in progress (Sun in Libra, An VII.).</p>
<p>[“P.S.” — I sealed up the MSS. of this comment and posted it to the printer on my way to the Golf Club at Hoylake. On my arrival at the Club, I found a letter awaiting me which stated that the catastrophe had occurred.]</p>
<p>Let the next upon whom the cloak may fall beware!</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-187" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>(43-45.) It is impossible to discuss such passages as these until time has furnished the perspective.</p>
<p>The accounts of certain magical experiments in this line will be found in “The Urn”.</p>
<p>This ‘child’ is not necessarily to be identified with him who ‘shall discover the key of it all.’</p>
<p>(Although this verse is specifically directed tot he Scarlet Woman, there is a sense in which it is useful to all Aspirants, and it must be taken in a very literal sense.</p>
<p>We have already remarked that there are no contradictions in the Book. You have been told not to pity; you have been told that compassion is the vice of kings; you must act as if you believe these assertions to be facts, if you want to become a Thelemite. See Liber LXV, v, 52-56.</p>
<p>Many of your ordeals shall be of pity and compassion. You must remember that pity is vanity and compassion is confusion, or you will run the risk of wasting your dedication on the most worthless people.</p>
<p>“Old sweetnesses”: see AL I, 49; AL II, 5, 52. These verses must be understood in the most literal sense, and complied with punctiliously. Let the dead bury their dead, and follow 666!</p>
<p>“I will alienate her heart”: I will confuse her intelligence.</p>
<p>“I will cast her out from men”: Even those for whom she showed pity or compassion will scorn her. In fact, they will be first to do so.</p>
<p>“I will slay me her child”: Remember the Sign I.R.! This is a hint for Members of a certain Grade.</p>
<p>Nor do you forget AL III, 16.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
