<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch199.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.51." class="level3">
<h3>III.51.</h3>
<p><em>With my Hawk’s head I peck at the eyes of Jesus as he hangs upon the cross.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-195" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(48-62.) Appears to be a plain instruction in theology and ethics.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-195" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>We are to consider carefully the particular attach of Heru Ra Ha against each of these ‘gods’ or prophets; for though they be, or represent, the Magi of the past, the curse of their Grade must consume them.</p>
<p>Thus it is the eyes of ‘Jesus’ – his point of view – that must be destroyed; and this point of view is wrong because of his Magical Gesture of self-sacrifice.</p>
<p>One must not for a moment suppose that this verse supports the historicity of ‘Jesus.’ ‘Jesus’ is not, and never was, a man; but he was a ‘god,’ just as a bundle of old rags and a kerosene tin on a bush may be a ‘god.’ There is a man-made idea, built of ignorance, fear, and meanness, for the most part, which we call ‘Jesus,’ and which has been tricked out from time to time with various gauds from Paganism, and Judaism.</p>
<p>The subject of ‘Jesus’ is, most unfortunately, too extensive for a note; it is treated fully in my Book 888.</p>
<p>(The main source of the „Jesus” of the New Testament was the unnamed „Master of Righteousness‟ of the Essenes; but it is impossible nowadays to separate what is historical and about him from what is historical about Ionas, or the Rabbi X, or the Rabbi Y. To say nothing of the legendary and hieratic details cribbed from the hagiographies of Dionysis, Meithras, Attis, Osiris, and others.</p>
<p>But even if it were possible to winnow the genuine form the spurious in the ola podrida of the Gospels — for what? Sixteen hundred years of „Jesus‟ ought to be enough for nay healthy stomach.</p>
<p>Unhealthy stomachs may keep their Isa, for all we care. See AL I, 49, and the Commentary thereof.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
