<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch192.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.44." class="level3">
<h3>III.44.</h3>
<p><em>But let her raise herself in pride! Let her follow me in my way! Let her work the work of wickedness! Let her kill her heart! Let her be loud and adulterous! Let her be covered with jewels, and rich garments, and let her be shameless before all men!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-188" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(43-45.) The two latter verses have become useless, so far as regards the person first indicated to fill the office of “Scarlet Woman.” In her case the prophecy of v. 43 has been most terribly fulfilled, to the letter; except the last paragraph. Perhaps before the publication of this comment the final catastrophe will have occurred (Sun in 20 Degree Virgo, An V.). It or an even more terrible equivalent is now in progress (Sun in Libra, An VII.).</p>
<p>[“P.S.” — I sealed up the MSS. of this comment and posted it to the printer on my way to the Golf Club at Hoylake. On my arrival at the Club, I found a letter awaiting me which stated that the catastrophe had occurred.]</p>
<p>Let the next upon whom the cloak may fall beware!</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-188" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>(43-45.) It is impossible to discuss such passages as these until time has furnished the perspective.</p>
<p>The accounts of certain magical experiments in this line will be found in “The Urn”.</p>
<p>This ‘child’ is not necessarily to be identified with him who ‘shall discover the key of it all.’</p>
<p>(“Pride” — see A.C.’s Commentary to AL II, 77.</p>
<p>“Work of wickedness” — it should be clear by now that what we call virtue many others call wickedness. Our own atavism rises against us in the path of Spiritual Revolution. Our „conscience‟ will tell us that we are being wicked when we struggle to free ourselves or others. Face the Phantom, then. You will be called wicked. He was. Glory in it!</p>
<p>“Kill her heart”: this refers to the Yoga practice of “Slaying the Cakkrams‟, in this case the Anahatta.</p>
<p>“Loud and adulterous” — see Liber Aleph, 116-118.</p>
<p>“Covered with jewels” — Cakkrams active.</p>
<p>“Rich garments” — Purple, gold and scarlet auric colors.</p>
<p>“Shameless before all men” — See AL II, 52, and the Commentaries thereto. Also remember that all children are shameless. If you are ashamed of yourself, change yourself; if you are ashamed of what you do, why do it? But if you are sure of yourself and of your deeds, why shame? Again, read Emerson’s essay “Self-Reliance.”!)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
