<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch190.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.42." class="level3">
<h3>III.42.</h3>
<p><em>The ordeals thou shalt oversee thyself, save only the blind ones. Refuse none, but thou shalt know &amp; destroy the traitors. I am Ra-Hoor-Khuit; and I am powerful to protect my servant. Success is thy proof: argue not; convert not; talk not over much! Them that seek to entrap thee, to overthrow thee, them attack without pity or quarter; &amp; destroy them utterly. Swift as a trodden serpent turn and strike! Be thou yet deadlier than he! Drag down their souls to awful torment: laugh at their fear: spit upon them!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-186" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>This shall be attended to.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-186" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>“Ordeals”: refer to the Comment on Chapter I, verses 32 seq. “Traitors”: see Liber 418: 1st Aethyer.</p>
<p>(Also, Liber LXV, I, 37-40, 57-58; ii, 27-29, 33-36, 45-47, 65; v, 3, 8-13, 60-63.</p>
<p>Also, Krishna‟s speech to Arjuna, in the Introduction to the Bhagavad Gita.</p>
<p>Readers must ponder, on the subject of death and killing, that either death is the end of consciousness, in which case it must come naturally to all men, and can ghave no moral significance any more than does rain, or sunshine, or the wind; or death is not the end of consciousness, in which case it still can have no moral significance except to those who believe in heaven and hell and eternal damnation. Thelemites don’t.</p>
<p>Serious students are earnestly invited to ponder William Blake’s most powerful work, “The Marriage of Heaven &amp; Hell”, on the subject of “angels”, “devils” and “damnation”.)</p>
<p>I quote: –</p>
<p>Mighty, mighty, mighty, mighty; yea, thrice and four times mighty art thou. He that riseth up against thee shall be thrown down, though thou raise not so much as thy little finger against him. and he that speaketh evil against thee shall be put to shame, though thy lips utter not the littlest syllable against him. and he that thinketh evil concerning thee shall be confounded in his thought, although in thy mind arise not the least thought of him. And they shall be brought into subjection unto thee, and serve thee, though thou willest it not. And it shall be unto them a grace and a sacrament, and ye shall all sit down together at the supernal banquet, and ye shall feast upon the honey of the gods, and be drunk upon the dew of immortality – FOR I AM HORUS, THE CROWNED AND CONQUERING CHILD, WHOM THOU KNEWEST NOT!</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
