<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch194.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.46." class="level3">
<h3>III.46.</h3>
<p><em>I am the warrior Lord of the Forties: the Eighties cower before me, &amp; are abased. I will bring you to victory &amp; joy: I will be at your arms in battle &amp; ye shall delight to slay. Success is your proof; courage is your armour; go on, go on, in my strength; &amp; ye shall turn not back for any!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-190" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>I do not understand the first paragraph.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-190" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Forty is Mem, Water, the Hanged Man; and Eighty is Pe, Mars, the blasted Tower. These Trumps refer respectively to the “Destruction of the World by Water” and “by Fire.” The meaning of these phrases is to be studied in my Rituals of Magick, such as Book 4, Parts II &amp; III. Its general purport is that He is master of both types of Force. I am inclined to opine that there is a simpler and deeper sense in the text than I have so far disclosed.</p>
<p>(As we have already remarked, these Commentaries were for the most part written between the Twenties and the Thirties. “I am the warrior Lord of the Forties” may thus refer tot he Second World War, that took place in the Forties. If so, it may be that another world catastrophe, much worse, and hot necessarily a war, is predicted for the Eighties.)</p>
<p>“at your arms” is a curious turn of phrase. There may be some cryptographic implication, or there may not; at least, there is this, that the use of such un-English expressions makes a clear-cut distinction between AIWAZ and the Scribe. In the inspired Books, such as Liber LXV, Liber VII, Liber DCCCXIII<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">1</a> and others, written by The Beast 666 directly, not from dictation, no such awkward expressions are to be found. The style shows a well-marked difference.</p>
<p>(„Battle‟ may not necessarily imply physical struggle; on the contrary. Physical struggle is the lst resort of intelligent men, because it is, as a rule, inefficient. One book can be mightier than a thousand armies; one Magick Ritual may set a whole nation moving.</p>
<p>Nevertheless, it is occasionally necessary to recur to physical battle to achieve one‟s will. In the last ditch, brute force understands only the argument of intelligent force.</p>
<p>Peacemongers are similar to short-sighted merchants in the they fail to see the long-run profit for the immediate advantages, which ay not be advantages at all. The campaigns of Alexander, Genghis Khan, Attila, Omar, Napoleon, were deplorable, no doubt; but their civilizing influence was enormous. The great bursts of economic, scientific and moral progress following the two World Wars are here for anyone to see. What the Nazis did in the matter of torture during thirty years, and for which they were universally condemned, was done for a thousand years by the Roman Catholic Church, with general approval of the learned; and was even boasted of as an achievement by the Jews of the Old Testament. Social conscience has progressed. We live in the most enlightened times of known history; the loud cries of denunciation of social injustice asre denouncing things that in our times affect only minorities; two hundred years ago they affected practically everybody, and were denounced by just a handful of honest men who were persecuted, put to death, or — if they were lucky — ignored as crackpots.)</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<aside epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" id="fn1">
<p><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">1</a>. Some transcripts have: “In the inspired Books, such as Liber LXV, VII, DCCXIII and others, written by The Beast 666 directly.” However it is almost certainly a transcription error in these copies, it should read Liber DCCCXIII. A.C. was almost certainly referring to Liber DCCCXIII (Liber 813). [Liber DCCXIII (Liber 713) is a document by Gregory von Seewald (Pheredur XI°).] - D.M.T</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>
