<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch193.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.45." class="level3">
<h3>III.45.</h3>
<p><em>Then will I lift her to pinnacles of power: then will I breed from her a child mightier than all the kings of the earth. I will fill her with joy: with my force shall she see &amp; strike at the worship of Nu: she shall achieve Hadit.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-189" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(43-45.) The two latter verses have become useless, so far as regards the person first indicated to fill the office of “Scarlet Woman.” In her case the prophecy of v. 43 has been most terribly fulfilled, to the letter; except the last paragraph. Perhaps before the publication of this comment the final catastrophe will have occurred (Sun in 20 Degree Virgo, An V.). It or an even more terrible equivalent is now in progress (Sun in Libra, An VII.).</p>
<p>[“P.S.” — I sealed up the MSS. of this comment and posted it to the printer on my way to the Golf Club at Hoylake. On my arrival at the Club, I found a letter awaiting me which stated that the catastrophe had occurred.]</p>
<p>Let the next upon whom the cloak may fall beware!</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-189" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>(43-45.) It is impossible to discuss such passages as these until time has furnished the perspective.</p>
<p>The accounts of certain magical experiments in this line will be found in “The Urn”.</p>
<p>This ‘child’ is not necessarily to be identified with him who ‘shall discover the key of it all.’</p>
<p>(This verse can be fully understood only by the Scarlet Woman or Magisters. However:</p>
<p>“Pinnacles of power” — Spiritual Power. See Liber 90, v. 43.</p>
<p>“Child mightier than all the kings of the earth” — The Crowned and Conquering Child, of course. The Babe of the Abyss.</p>
<p>“Joy” — 10+70+10=90. See Liber Tzaddi</p>
<p>“The worship of Nu” — See Liber NV. Also, Artemis Iota.</p>
<p>“She shall achieve Hadit.” — See Liber HAD.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
