<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch195.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.47." class="level3">
<h3>III.47.</h3>
<p><em>This book shall be translated into all tongues: but always with the original in the writing of the Beast; for in the chance shape of the letters and their position to one another: in these are mysteries that no Beast shall divine. Let him not seek to try: but one cometh after him, whence I say not, who shall discover the Key of it all. Then this line drawn is a key: then this circle squared in its failure is a key also. And Abrahadabra. It shall be his child &amp; that strangely. Let him not seek after this; for thereby alone can he fall from it.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-191" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>These mysteries are inscrutable to me, as stated in the text. Later (Sun in Capricorn, An V.) I note that the letters of the Book are the letters of the Book of Enoch; and are stars, or totems of stars. (See 15th Aire in Liber 418.) So that he that shall divine it shall be a Magus, 9° = 2□.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-191" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>I am now (An XIV {?} in {?}) a Magus 9° = 2□; and I agree with the former comment. (Published in Equinox I, 7.) He need only be a Magister Templi 8° = 3□, whose world is Understanding.</p>
<p>“one cometh after him:” ‘one,’ i.e. Achad. See Appendix {WEH NOTE: Appendix not yet recovered} for this and other points of this most ‘evidential’ verse. “the Key of it all:” all, i.e. AL 31 the Key! See MS for allusion to the “line drawn” and the “circle squared in its failure.”</p>
<p>The attribution (in the Old Comment) of the letters to those of the Book of Enoch is unsupported.</p>
<p>(The injunction that AL be always translated along with a facsimile of the original is important, since no translation, no matter how good, can maintain all the keys, subtle double-meanings, and qabalistic puns of the original. If a student hopes to accomplish much, he will be forced to learn the English language very thoroughly. This suggests that English may in future centuries achieve the distinction of a hieratic language.</p>
<p>There are only two MMSS of AL extant in the writing of the Beast. The original MMSS was published in facsimile by Frater SATURNUS in The Equinox of the Gods. It accompanies this edition of the Commentaries. While in Cefalu, Crowley made the mistake of copying AL in his own hand, to give as a present to a favorite disciple. The favorite disciple promptly went mad (the quartos have madder) and ran away. Years later, having apparently recovered his wits, he sold this copy, pretending it was the true original MMSS of Liber AL. Last heard of, the buyer was announcing that he was the proud owner of the original MMSS of the “bible of hell.” Even if her were, we still don‟t know what physical possession of the MMSS of AL is supposed to prove. That you are in Ipsissimus, perhaps?… Would it were so easy!)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
