<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch203.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.55." class="level3">
<h3>III.55.</h3>
<p><em>Let Mary inviolate be torn upon wheels: for her sake let all chaste women be utterly despised among you!</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-199" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(48-62.) Appears to be a plain instruction in theology and ethics.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-199" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>The name Mary is connected with Mars, Mors, etc., from the Sanskrit MR to slay and with Mare, the Sea, whose water opposes the Fire of Horus. I here quote a passage from Liber XCVII which deals with this fully.</p>
<p>“Let me strictly meditate this hate of the mother. M R is the Sanskrit root = “Kill,” hence Mara, Mors, Maria, and I suppose Meer, Mere, Mer – in short, lots of words meaning death or sea. Note Mordred as the traitor villain in Morte d’Arthur. In Liber Legis we have “Mary” who is to be ‘torn upon wheels’ apparently because she is ‘inviolate.’ Liber 418 has some explanation of this: ‘because she hath shut herself up’, I seem to remember is the phrase.</p>
<p>It appears (I don’t remember the Sanskrit as if a dental T or D were inserted phallically to give us Madar, Mu-eta-tau-eta-rho, Mater, Mother, (? meter = measure.)</p>
<p>Does the accent in mere conceal a lost dental? I suppose Jung or Freud has this all worked out in detail.</p>
<p>I have thought this before, long ago, but can’t get a satisfactory Qabalah. 240 is a doubling of the Pentagram, of course, and is a sixfold of 40, the number of repressive ‘sealed-up’ law. By our R.O.T.A., M R is the Sea swallowing the Sun, and the insertion of a Tau would help this in a certain formula of “He lives in the Sun.” But that would only boost the Mother, which won’t do, for she is the Tomb, the Eater of Flesh, and there’s no getting away from it. But apparently she is all right just so far as she is open, to enter or leave at one’s pleasure, the Gateway of Eternal Life.</p>
<p>She is Sakti, the Teh, the Magical Door between the Tao and the Manifested World. The great Obstacle than is if that Door be locked up. Therefore Our Lady must be symbolized as an Whore. (Note Daleth, the Door = Venus. The Dove; Free flowing; all this is linked up in the symbol). Clearly, at last, the Enemy is this Shutting up of things. Shutting the Door is preventing the Operation of Change, i.e. of Love. The objection to Calypso, Circe, Armida, Kundry, and Co. is that one is liable to be shut up in their Gardens. The whole of the Book of the Dead is a device for opening the closed vehicles, and enabling the Osiris to go in and out at his pleasure. On the other hand, there seems to be a Sealing Up, for a definite period, in order to allow the Change to proceed undisturbed. Thus Earth lies fallow; the womb is closed during gestation; the Osiris is plugged with talismans. But it is vital to consider this as a strictly temporary device; and to “cut out the idea of Eternal Rest”. This Nibbana-idea is the coward – ‘Mother’s Boy’ idea; one ought to take a refreshing dip in the Tao, no more. I think this must be brought forward as the Cardinal Point of Our Holy Law. Thus though Nuit cries “To me!” that is balanced by the Formula of Hadit. “Come unto me” is a foolish word; for it is I that go.</p>
<p>Now the Semen is God (the going-one, as shown by the Ankh or Sandal-strap, which He carries) because he goes in at the Door, stays there for a specified period, and comes out again, having flowered, and still bearing in him that Seed of Going. (The birth of a girl is a misfortune everywhere, because the true Going-Principle is the Lion-Serpent, or Dragon; the Egg is only the Cavern where he takes refuge on occasions).</p>
<p>{WEH NOTE: Shall we simply say that Crowley had a problem with misogyny in general? His love for the specific seems not to have been effected, witness the latter part of “Confessions”.}</p>
<p>(Perhaps the birth of a girl is a misfortune in some countries; but this is due to the „Sin‟ Syndrome of the Aeon of Osiris. In this Aeon, the sexes are complementary. It would be a much greater misfortune if no girls were born!)</p>
<p>Liber 418 explains this succinctly; 3rd Aethyr</p>
<p>“Moreover, there is Mary, a blasphemy against BABALON, for she hath shut herself up; and therefore is she the Queen of all those wicked devils that walk upon the earth, those that thou savest even as little black specks that stained the Heaven of Urania. And all these are the excrement of Choronzon.”</p>
<p>It is this ‘shutting up’ that is hideous, the image of death. It is the opposite of Going, which is God.</p>
<p>Women under Christianity are kept virgin for the market as Strasbourg geese are nailed to boards till their livers putrefy. The nature of woman has been corrupted, her hope of a soul thwarted, her proper pleasure balked, and her mind poisoned, to titillate the jaded palates of senile bankers and ambassadors.</p>
<p>(Or senile young men of twenty-two.)</p>
<p>Why do men insist on ‘innocence’ in women?</p>
<ol type="1">
<li><p>To flatter their vanity.</p></li>
<li><p>To give themselves the best chance of (a) escaping venereal disease, (b) propagating their noble selves.</p></li>
<li><p>To maintain power over their slaves by their possession of Knowledge.</p></li>
<li><p>To keep them docile as long as possible by drawing out the debauching of their innocence. A sexually pleased woman is the best of willing helpers; one who is disappointed or disillusioned a very psychical exzema.</p></li>
<li><p>In primitive communities, to serve as a guard against surprise and treachery.</p></li>
<li><p>To cover their secret shame in the matter of sex. Hence the pretence that a woman is ‘pure’, modest, delicate, aesthetically beautiful and morally exalted, ethereal and unfleshly, though in fact they know her to be lascivious, shameless, coarse, ill-shapen, unscrupulous, nauseatingly bestial both physically and mentally. The advertisements of “dress shields,” perfumes, cosmetics, anti-sweat preparations, and “Beauty Treatments” reveal woman’s nature as seen by the clear eyes of those who would lose money if they misjudged her; and they are loathsomely revolting to read. Her mental and moral characteristics are those of the parrot and the monkey. Her physiology and pathology are hideously disgusting, a sickening slime of uncleanliness.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>Her virgin life is a sick ape’s, her sexual life a druken sow’s, her mother life all bulging filmy eyes and sagging udders.</p>
<p>These are the facts about “innocence;” to this has man’s Christian Endeavour dragged her when he should rather have made her his comrade, frank, trusty, and gay, the tenderer self of himself, his consubstantial complement even as Earth is to the Sun.</p>
<p>We of Thelema say that “Every man and every woman is a star.” We do not fool and flatter women; we do not despise and abuse them. To us a woman is Herself, absolute, original, independent, free, self-justified, exactly as a man is.</p>
<p>We dare not thwart Her Going, Goddess she! We arrogate no right upon Her will; we claim not to deflect Her development, to dispose of Her desires, or to determine Her destiny. She is Her own sole arbitar; we ask no more than to supply our strength to Her, whose natural weakness else were prey to the world’s pressure. Nay more, it were too zealous even to guard Her in Her Going; for She were best by Her own self-reliance to win Her own way forth!</p>
<p>We do not want Her as a slave; we want Her free and royal, whether Her love fight death in our arms by night, or Her loyalty ride by day beside us in the Charge of the Battle of Life.</p>
<p>“Let the woman be girt with a sword before me!”</p>
<p>“In her is all power given.”</p>
<p>So sayeth this our Book of the Law. We respect Woman in the self of Her own nature; we do not arrogate the right to criticise her. We welcome her as our ally, come to our camp as her Will, free-flashing, sword-swinging, hath told Her, Welcome, thou Woman, we hail thee, star shouting to Star! Welcome to rout and to revel! Welcome to fray and to feast! Welcome to vigil and victory! Welcome to war with out {WEH NOTE: Some texts have “out” some “its”} wounds! Welcome to peace with its pageants! Welcome to lust and to laughter! Welcome to board and to bed! Welcome to trumpet and triumph; welcome to dirge and to death!</p>
<p>It is we of Thelema who truly love and respect Woman, who hold her sinless and shameless even as we are; and those who say that we despise Her are those who shrink from the flash of our falchions as we strike from Her limbs their foul fetters.</p>
<p>Do we call Woman Whore? Ay, Verily and Amen, She is that; the air shudders and burns as we shout it, exulting and eager.</p>
<p>O ye! Was not this your sneer, your vile Whisper that scorned Her and shamed Her? Was not “Whore” the truth of Her, the title of terror that you gave Her in your fear of Her, coward comforting coward with furtive glance and gesture?</p>
<p>But we fear Her not; we cry Whore, as Her armies approach us. We beat on our shields with our swords. Earth echoes the clamour!</p>
<p>Is there doubt of the victory? Your hordes of cringing slaves, afraid of themselves, afraid of their own slaves, hostile, despised and distrusted, your only tacticians the ostrich, the opossum, and the cuttle, will you not break and flee at our first onset, as with levelled lances of lust we ride at the charge, with our allies, the Whores whom we love and acclaim, free friends by our sides in the Battle of Life?</p>
<p>The Book of the Law is the Charter of Woman; the Word Thelema has opened the lock of Her “girdle of chastity.” Your Sphinx of stone has come to life; to know, to will, to dare and to keep silence.</p>
<p>Yes, I, The Beast, my Scarlet Whore bestriding me, naked and crowned, drunk on Her golden Cup of Fornication, boasting Herself my bedfellow, have trodden Her in the Market place, and roared this Word that every woman is a star. And with that Word is uttered Woman’s Freedom; the fools and fribbles and flirts have heard my voice. The fox in woman hath heard the Lion in man; fear, fainting, flabbiness, frivolity, falsehood – these are no more the mode.</p>
<p>In vain will bully and brute and braggart man, priest, lawyer, or social censor knit his brows to devise him a new tamer’s trick; once and for all the tradition is broken; vanished the vogue of bowstring, sack, stoning, nose-slitting, beltbuckling, cart’s tail-dragging, whipping, pillory posting, walling-up, divorce court, eunuch, harem, mind-crippling, house-imprisoning, menial-work-wearying, creed-stultifying, social-ostracism marooning, Divine-wrath-scaring, and even the device of creating and encouraging prostitution to keep one class of women in the abyss under the heel of the police, and the other on its brink, at the mercy of the husband’s boot at the first sign of insubordination or even of failure to please.</p>
<p>Man’s torture-chamber had tools inexhaustibly varied; at one end murder crude and direct to subtler, more callous, starvation; at the other moral agonies, from tearing her child from her breast to threatening her with a rival when her service had blasted her beauty.</p>
<p>Most masterful man, yet most cunning, was not thy supreme stratagem to band the woman’s own sisters against her, to use their knowledge of her psychology and the cruelty of their jealousies to avenge thee on thy slave as thou thyself hadst neither wit nor spite to do?</p>
<p>And Woman, weak in body, and starved in mind; woman, morally fettered by Her heroic oath to save the race, no care of cost, helpless and hard, endured these things, endured from age to age. Hers was no loud spectacular sacrifice, no cross on a hill-top, with the world agaze, and monstrous miracles to echo the applause of heaven. She suffered and triumphed in most shameful silence; she had no friend, no follower, none to aid or approve. For thanks she had but maudlin flatteries, and knew what cruel-cold scorn the hearts of men scarce cared to hide.</p>
<p>She agonized, ridiculous and obscene; gave all her beauty and strength of maidenhood to suffer sickness, weakness, danger of death, choosing to live the life of a cow – that so Mankind might sail the seas of time.</p>
<p>She knew that man wanted nothing of her but service of his base appetites; in his true manhood-life she had nor part nor lot; and all her wage was his careless contempt.</p>
<p>She hath been trampled thus through all the ages, and she hath tamed them thus. Her silence was the token of her triumph.</p>
<p>But now the Word of Me the Beast is this; not only art thou Woman, sworn to a purpose not thine own; thou art thyself a star, and in thyself a purpose to thyself. Not only mother of men art thou, or whore to men; serf to their need of Life and Love, not sharing in their Light and Liberty; nay, thou art Mother and Whore for thine own pleasure; the Word I say to Man I say to thee no less: Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law!</p>
<p>Ay, priest, ay, lawyer, ay, censor! Will ye not gather in secret once again, if in your hoard of juggler’s tricks there be not one untried, or in your cunning and counsel one device new-false to save your pirate ship from sinking?</p>
<p>It has always been so easy up to now! What is the blasting Magick in that Word, first thesis of the Book of the Law, that “every woman is a star.”</p>
<p>Alas! it is I the Beast that roared that Word so loud, and wakened Beauty.</p>
<p>Your tricks, your drowsy drugs, your lies, your hypnotic passes – they will not serve you.</p>
<p>Make up your minds to be free and fearless as I, fit mates for women no less free and fearless!</p>
<p>For I, The Beast, am come; an end to the evils of old, to the duping and clubbing of abject and ailing animals, degraded to that shameful state to serve that shameful pleasure.</p>
<p>The essence of my Word is to declare woman to be Herself, of, to, and for Herself; and I give this one irresistible Weapon, the expression of Herself and Her will through sex, to Her on precisely the same terms as to man.</p>
<p>Murder is no longer to be dreaded; the economic weapon is powerless since female labour has been found industrially valuable; and the social weapon is entirely in her own hands.</p>
<p>The best women have always been sexually-free, like the best men; it is only necessary to remove the penalties for being found out. Let Women’s labour organizations support any individual who is economically harried on sexual grounds; let social organizations honour in public what their members practise in private.</p>
<p>Most domestic unhhappiness will disappear automatically, for its chief cause is the sexual dissatisfaction of wives, or the anxiety (or other mental strain engendered should they take the remedy in their own hands.</p>
<p>The crime of abortion will lose its motive in all but the most exceptional cases.</p>
<p>Blackmail will be confined to commercial and political offences, thus diminishing its frequency by two-thirds, at least, maybe much more.</p>
<p>Social scandals and jealousies will tend to disappear.</p>
<p>Sexual disease will be easier to track and to combat, when it is not longer a disgrace to admit it.</p>
<p>Prostitution (with its attendant crimes) will tend to disappear, as it will cease to offer exorbitant profits to those who exploit it. The pre-occupation of the minds of the public with sexual questions will no longer breed moral disease and insanity, when the sex-appetite is treated as simply as hunger. Frankness of speech and writing on sexual questions will dispel the ignorance which entraps so many unfortunate people; proper precaution against actual dangers will replace unnecessary and absurd precautions against imaginary or artificial dangers; and the quacks who trade on fear will be put out of business.</p>
<p>All this must follow as the Light the night as soon as Woman, true to Herself, finds that She can no longer be false to any man. She must hold Herself and Her Will in honour; and She must compel the world to accord it.</p>
<p>The modern woman is not going to be dupe, slave, and victim any more; the woman who gives herself up freely to her own enjoyment, without asking recompense, will earn the respect of her brothers, and will openly despise her ‘chaste’ or venal sisters, as men now despise ‘milksops,’ ‘sissies,’ and ‘tango lizards.’ Love is to be divorced utterly and irrevocably from social and financial agreements, especially marriage. Love is a sport, an art, a religion, as you will; it is not an ol’ clo’ Emporium.</p>
<p>‘Mary inviolate’ is to be ‘torn upon wheels’ because tearing is the only treatment for her; and RV, a wheel, is the name of the feminine principle. (See Liber D.) It is her own sisters who are to punish her for the crime of denying Her nature, not men who are to redeem her, since, as above remarked, it is man’s own false sense of guilt, his selfishness, and his cowardice, which originally forced her to blaspheme against herself, and so degraded her in her own eyes, and in his. Let him attend to his own particular business, to redeem himself – he has surely his hands full! Woman will save herself if she be but left alone to do it. I see, it, I, the Beast, who have seen - who see – Space splendid with stars, who have seen – who see – the Body of our Lady Nuith, all-pervading, and therein swallowed up, to have found – to find – no soul that is not wholly of Her. Woman! thou drawest us upward and onward for ever; and every woman is one among women, of Woman; one star of Her stars.</p>
<p>I see thee, Woman, thou standest alone, High Priestess art thou unto Love at the Altar of Life. And Man is the Victim therein.</p>
<p>Beneath thee, rejoicing, he lies; he exults as he dies, burning up in the breath of thy kiss. Yea, star rushes flaming to star; the blaze burst, splashes the skies.</p>
<p>There is a Cry in an unknown tongue, it resounds through the Temple of the Universe; in its one Word is Death and Ecstasy, and thy title of honour, o thou, to Thyself High Priestess, Prophetess, Empress, to thyself the Goddess whose Name means Mother and whore!</p>
<p>(The above Commentary was written in the Twenties, when the Female Revolution was getting started. Woman has now gained the same rights as man; but she did not ask for the concomitant duties.</p>
<p>As a result we find men being conned by women, particularly in the United States of America, where marriage is, to the male, a synonym of bondage. American wives tend to speak of a husband as in the past men spoke of a good, hard-working drudge.</p>
<p>A free woman must respect the men she beds, otherwise why does she bed them? She must not try to dupe them, she must give as much as she receives, and she must not assume automatically that it is a man‟s duty to support her children, if she has them. The first condition for freedom is self-control and self-sufficiency. If she wants to become pregnant, she must first make sure that the man wants to share the load of her children; and if he doesn’t, she must either carry the load herself, or postpone pregnancy until she finds another man who does.</p>
<p>Thelemites abhor prostitution; it is sad to say, but most married women nowadays are prostitutes who stick to one customer, or worse, pretend to stick to one customer. Such „chaste‟ women are to be utterly despised. A truly chaste woman is she who not only will defend her own sexual freedom tooth and nail, but also will punctiliously refrain from trying to curtail the sexual freedom of the male. See AL, I, 41.</p>
<p>Further on the subject of Woman will be found in Liber AlephLiber Aleph, 168-172, 133-134, 125, 176; Magick Without Tears, 15, 38; Liber LXV, v, 8-10, 43-47, 50; Liber VII, I, 48-49; iii, 7-16, 37-39; iv, 54-59; v, 43; vii, 15-16, 46-49; Liber 370 and Liber 156; and Liber NV.</p>
<p>Before we pass on to the next verse, there is one obsession to which female occultists are prone which ought to be mentioned: the temptation to “be better than the male”. Just as the disciple will be tempted to “dethrone” the Master, some women — and generally those of most promise! — will be tempted to replace man.</p>
<p>That is obviously utter folly.</p>
<p>Nuit is Woman, and Hadit is Man, and They are complementary. One has no meaning without the other.</p>
<p>Woman can never be “better” than man. There are no possible grounds for comparison.</p>
<p>Of course, it would be just as foolish to say that “Man is better than woman.”</p>
<p>By function, a woman cannot rise above the Grade of Magister Templi while manifested as a woman. She does not have the necessary anatomical instrument to function as a Magus.</p>
<p>This is no sign of spiritual inferiority. Every man and every woman is a star. But if we deal with a Being manifested on a plane, and operating magically on that plane, we must take on account the conditions of manifestation.</p>
<p>In the past, women have attempted to “say Mass”, to breed Spiritual Movements, even to rule Occult Orders. There were even those who tried to direct the course of a Mass of the Holy Ghost, using the man as “instrument”!</p>
<p>The result has always been unmitigated disaster for all concerned. We need only compare the record of the Theosophical Society under Helena Blavatsky, who was a Magister Templi, to that under Anne Besant, who was a “Black Brother”. Mme, Blavatsky HAD a Superior, and obeyed Him; Mrs. Besant HAD Mme. Blavatsky, but as soon as her Superior died began disobeying all the instructions Mme. Blavatsky had given her.</p>
<p>We know of a recent case in which the woman assumed the Magical Motto of “Soror Chokhmah.” This is quite all right in terms of Spiritual Aspiration, or even Spiritual Achievement; but in terms of physical manifestation, it is a laugh.</p>
<p>The planes cannot, and must not, be mixed. We are, all of us, Male and Female in one. Our glands secrete male ad female hormones. The difference between a male and female child is simply a matter of endocrine balance.</p>
<p>But there IS a difference. See AL I, 16.</p>
<p>And it must never be forgotten.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
