<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch208.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.60." class="level3">
<h3>III.60.</h3>
<p><em>There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-204" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(48-62.) Appears to be a plain instruction in theology and ethics.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-204" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>There are of course lesser laws than this, details, particular cases, of the Law. But the whole of the Law is Do what thou wilt, and there is no law beyond it. This subject is treated fully in Liber AlephLiber CXI Aleph, and the student should refer thereto.</p>
<p>Far better, let him assume this Law to be the Universal Key to every problem of Life, and then apply it to one particular case after another. As he comes by degrees to understand it, he will be astounded at the simplification of the most obscure questions which it furnishes. Thus he will assimilate the Law, and make it the norm of his conscious being; this by itself will suffice to initiate him, to dissolve his complexes, to unveil himself to himself; and so shall he attain the Knowledge and Conversation of his Holy Guardian Angel.</p>
<p>I have myself practiced constantly to prove the Law by many and divers modes in many and divers spheres of thought, until it has become absolutely fixed in me, so much so that it appears an “identical equation,” axiomatic indeed, and yet not a platitude, but a very sword of Truth to sunder every knot at a touch.</p>
<p>As the practical ethics of the Law, I have formulated in words of one syllable my declaration of the</p>
<p>RIGHTS OF MAN</p>
<p>Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.</p>
<p>There is no god but Man.</p>
<p>Man has the right to live by his own Law.</p>
<p>Man has the right to live in the way that he wills to do.</p>
<p>Man has the right to dress as he wills to do.</p>
<p>Man has the right to dwell where he wills to dwell.</p>
<p>Man has the right to move as he will on the face of the Earth.</p>
<p>Man has the right to eat what he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to drink what he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to think as he will</p>
<p>Man has the right to speak as he will</p>
<p>Man has the right to write as he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to mould as he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to paint as he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to carve as he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to work as he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to rest as he will</p>
<p>Man has the right to love as he will, when, where and whom he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to die when and how he will.</p>
<p>Man has the right to kill those who would thwart these rights.</p>
<p>This statement must not be regarded as individualism run wild. Its harmony with statecraft is demonstrated in the Chapters of Liber AlephLiber Aleph already quoted – see comment on Chapter II verse 72.</p>
<p>Modern thought, even that of the shallowest, is compelled by AIWAZ to confirm His Law, without knowing what it is about. For instance: “God’s wind from nowhere which is called the Will; and is man’s only excuse upon this earth,” was written by so trivial a Fat Man as Gilbert Keith Chesterton in “The Flying Inn.”</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
