<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch201.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.53." class="level3">
<h3>III.53.</h3>
<p><em>With my claws I tear out the flesh of the Indian and the Buddhist, Mongol and Din.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-197" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(48-62.) Appears to be a plain instruction in theology and ethics. I do not understand “Din.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-197" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>“The Indian.” The religion of Hindustan, metaphysically and mystically comprehensive enough to assure itself the possession of much truth, is in practice almost as superstitious and false as Christianity, a faith of slaves, liars and dastards. The same remarks apply roughly to Buddhism.</p>
<p>’Mongol:” presumably the reference is to Confucianism, whose metaphysical and ethical flawlessness has not saved its adherents from losing those ruder virtues which are proper to a Fighting Animal, and thus yielding at last a civilization coeval with history itself to the barbarous tribes of Europe.</p>
<p>“Din” – ‘severity’ or ‘judgment’ may refer to the Jewish Law, rather than to the Faith (ad ‘din’) of Islam. Assuming this, the six religions whose flesh must be torn out cover the whole globe outside Islam and Christianity.</p>
<p>(It should be noted that these religions are mentioned impersonally, while Christianity and Islam are mentioned in the person of their founders, or alleged founders.</p>
<p>Obviously, „Din‟ refers to Mosaic Law; Islam has already been disposed of in the previous verse.)</p>
<p>Why assault their flesh rather than their eyes, as in the other cases? Because the metaphysics, or point of view, is correct – I take Judaism as Qabalistic – but the practice imperfect.</p>
<p>(Orgnaized religion is the death of Theurgy. But at least it should not be the death of common sense. You are free to make a fool of yourself, but leave your neighbor alone. He may make a Fool of himself — who knows?)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
