<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch210.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.62." class="level3">
<h3>III.62.</h3>
<p><em>To Me do ye reverence! to me come ye through tribulation of ordeal, which is bliss.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-206" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(48-62.) Appears to be a plain instruction in theology and ethics.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-206" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>This seems to indicate the means to be used in freeing the soul from its ‘girders’.</p>
<p>We have seen that Ra-Hoor-Khuit is in one sense the Silent Self in a man, a Name of his Khabs, not so impersonal as Hadit, but the first and least untrue formulation of the Ego. We are to reverse this self in us, then, not to suppress it and subordinate it. Nor are we to evade it, but to come to it. This is done “through tribulation of ordeal”. This tribulation is that experienced in the process called Psychoanalysis, now that official science has adopted – so far as its inferior intelligence permits – the methods of the magus. But the ‘ordeal’ is ‘bliss’; the solution of each complex by ‘tribulation’ – note the etymological significance of the word! – is the spasm of joy which is the physiological and psychological accompaniment of any relief from strain and congestion.</p>
<p>(Serious students will please notice “Me” and “me”. One pronoun refers to the Lord of the Aeon as enthroned, radiating from Boleskine. The second pronoun refers to Ra-Hoor-Khu; that is, the Lord of the Aeon manifested in the soul of the worshipper.</p>
<p>Aspirants should understand that to Thelemites the verb „to worship‟ means „to identify with‟. It is „love under will‟.</p>
<p>You should not be afraid of becoming obsessed. The balance of the Universe does not permit it. Obsession always begins within, not without. Courage is your armour — and fear sit he chink thereof. “Be thou therefore without fear, for in the heart of the coward virtue (Ra-Hoor-Khu) abideth not.”</p>
<p>As to the “tribulation of ordeal”, one word must be said about the Thelemic Current, and the early experiences of those who seek to identify themselves with it.</p>
<p>First, the Current is in its beginning. It is growing, and the past currents are all dying (since the Thelemic Current includes the spiritual substance of all of them — this should be readily understood from the curses in AL III, 49-55). But in the present moment, the inertia of the past currents is enormous. A great effort is necessary; each new Aspirant must add his energy to the Impulse. See Liber LXV, iii, 56.</p>
<p>Second, the Current destroys and dissolves everything in the Personality that checks the manifestation of the True Will of the Aspirant. Consequently, in most cases, the first impression of the Aspirant who succeeds in making contact with the Current is that a “black and malignant” force is persecuting and destroying him. And he is quite right. See Liber LXV, I, 12-17, II: 7-15, 30-32, 62, III; 30, 37-48; IV, 45-51; v, 8-9, 14, 34-36, 51, 61-63; see also Liber 156; and Liber AL, I, 32, 60; II, 14, 52-54, 60, 78-79; III, 18, 42-46. All this applies itself not only to “enemies” but to our own personality; first of all, to our own personality! See AL I, 17; Liber HAD, v. 8; Liber NV, vv. 9-11.</p>
<p>Third, the Current does not offer “consolation” to the personality. It neither “directs” nor “advises” you. It merely stimulates any manifestation of the higher faculties; but in each and every case, the Aspirant must take the first step, himself by himself. See LXV, iii, 3-16, and the Commentary thereon. The “Elephant God” is the moral force — the strength of character — of the Aspirant himself. If he does not manifest it — to hell with him! See AL II, 48-49.</p>
<p>Why is the tribulation of ordeal “bliss”? That should need no explaining. It is hard to do something good and great; it is hard to grow up and play the man; but it is bliss, and when we look back we think: “it was worth it”. See AL, II, 9.)</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
