<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch215.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.67." class="level3">
<h3>III.67.</h3>
<p><em>Through the fourth, ultimate sparks of the intimate fire.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-211" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(64-67.) This too shall be proven to him who will and can.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-211" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Beyond the one, how shall he pass on? What is this One, which is in every place the Centre of All? Indeed the logic-girders of our souls need lightening, if we would win to freedom of such Truth as this!</p>
<p>Now in the ‘stones of precious water’ the Light leapt clear indeed, but they were not themselves that Light. This sphere of the One is indeed Ra-Hoor-Khuit; is not our Crowned and Conquering Child the source of Light? Nay, he is finite form of Unity, child of two married infinities; and in this last ordeal the aspirant must go beyond even his Star, finding therein the core thereof Hadit, and losing it also in the Body of Nuith.</p>
<p>Here is no Path that he may tread, for all is equally everywhere; nor is there any sphere to attain, for measure is now no more.</p>
<p>There are no words to make known the Way; this only is said, that to him that hath passed through this fourth ordeal this Book is as ‘ultimate sparks’. No more do they reflect or transmit the Light; they themselves are the original, the not-to-be-analysed Light, of the ‘intimate fire’ of Hadit! He shall see the Book as it is, as a shower of the Seed of the Stars!</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
