<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch220.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.72." class="level3">
<h3>III.72.</h3>
<p><em>I am the Lord of the Double Wand of Power; the wand of the Force of Coph Nia — but my left hand is empty, for I have crushed an Universe; &amp; nought remains.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-216" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>(70-72.) A final pronouncement of His attributes. I do not know the exact meaning of v. 71. [Later, Sun in Libra, An VII. Yes: I do.]</p>
<p>Coph Nia. I cannot trace this anywhere; but KOPhNIA adds to 231. Nia is Ain backwards; Coph suggests Qoph. All very unsatisfactory.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-216" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>“The Double Wand of Power” is a curious variant of the common “Wand of Double Power”; the general meaning is “I control alike the Forces of Active and Passive”.</p>
<p>“Coph Nia”: the original MS. has “—-”; left incomplete as not having been properly heard. The present text was filled in later in her own hand by the first Scarlet Woman.</p>
<p>The Egyptian Gods are usually represented as bearing an Ankh, or sandal-strap, in the left hand, the wand being in the right. This ankh signifies the power to go, characteristic of a god.</p>
<p>But apparently Ra Hoor Khuit had an Universe in his left hand, and crushed it so that naught remains. I think this “Universe” is that of monistic metaphysics; in one hand is the “Double Wand”, in the other “naught”. This seems to refer to the ‘none and Two’ ontology outlined in previous notes.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
