<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-EN" xml:lang="en-EN">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch222.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="iii.74." class="level3">
<h3>III.74.</h3>
<p><em>There is a splendour in my name hidden and glorious, as the sun of midnight is ever the son.</em></p>
<section id="the-old-comment-218" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>Perhaps refers to the addition of the name to 418. But Khephra is the “Sun” at midnight in the North. Now in the North is Taurus, the Bull, Apis the Redeemer, the “Son.”</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-218" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>I suspect some deeper and more startling arcanum than the Old Comment indicates; but I have not yet discovered it. An XVI, Sol in Capricorn.</p>
<p>(One of the technical meanings of this verse is that Darkness is not “evil”. There are no “demons of the dark”. There is no “absolute Evil”. (Of course, there is no “Absolute Good”, either!) The Sun is not “dead” at midnight; it is shining on the other side of the world. This awareness, therefore, represents total annihilation of the theory of the “Sacrificed God”, dying and resurrecting, the “Jesus” of the Roman-Alexandrites. Of course, this was already explicitly declared in verse 51.</p>
<p>Ra-Hoor-Khuit in Eqyptian means, literally, “Sun of the Two Horizons”. This suggests that the Eqyptian initiates were aware that the earth moves around the sun, spinning on its axis.</p>
<p>Why “the sun of midnight”, specifically? Because midnight was the Hour of Terror in the Middle Ages. It was the hour when ghosts came to haunt the living, devils climbed out of hell to tempt the faithful. Atavically, fear of the dark dates from pre-history, when the great nocturnal predators hunted our ancestors still ignorant of fire or weapons.</p>
<p>This fear must end. See AL III, 18-20, and the Commentaries thereon. Also Liber LXV, I, 12-19; II, 31-36, 63; III, 30-33; IV, 15, 24-25; V, 6. Also Liber VII, IV, 48-49; VII, 28-40. Heru-ra-ha is, of course, the “Devil”. Also, of course, the “child Jesus”. See Book 4, Part III, Chapter XVI, Part II, Section V, the last paragraph.</p>
<p>“Ever the son” — or, “the son who lives eternally”. The word “Satanas, that so long terrified the West, is but a corruption of the Sanskrit word SANATANAS, which means”eternal,” or “everlasting”; it was applied to the Spiritual Suns of the “Trimurti”: Brahma, Siva and Vishnu.) ### III.75.</p>
<p><em>The ending of the words is the Word Abrahadabra.</em></p>
</section>
<section id="the-old-comment-219" class="level4">
<h4>The Old Comment</h4>
<p>The ending of the words is the ending of the Work — Abrahadabra The Book is written, as we see; and concealed — from our weak understanding.</p>
<p>Aum-Ha, עם [HB: AUM] = 111, הא [HB:HA] = 6, 111 x 6 = 666, the Seal of the Beast. Note well that עם {Ayin-Mem} [HB: AUM] with a ם {Mem} final adds to 671, Throa, the Gate, Adonai spelt in full, etc. etc. Using the Keys of Aum Ha, we get XII. + XV. + 0, and IV. + 0, their sum, 31 = לא [HB:LA], Not.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-new-comment-219" class="level4">
<h4>The New Comment</h4>
<p>Aum is of course the Sanskrit “Word” familiar to most students. (See Book 4 Part III). Ha is a way of spelling the letter whose value is 5 so that it shall add to 6. this uniting the 5 and the 6 is a symbol of the Great Work.</p>
<p>(Ha is also the Sanskrit syllable utilized in Yoga to invoke the element of Spirit, Akasha.</p>
<p>“The ending of the words is the Word Abrahadabra”: or, the purpose of the Past Magi is fulfilled in the Magus of the Aeon.)</p>
<div class="centered">
<p>The Book of the Law is Written and Concealed. Aum. Ha.</p>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
